# A Service Infrastructure for Industrie 4.0 Testbeds based on Asset Administration Shells

Source: luxenburger2023i40.pdf


---

### Page 1

A   Service   Infrastructure   for   Industrie 4.0   Testbeds
based   on   Asset   Administration   Shells
Andreas   Luxenburger,   Daniel   Porta,   S¨onke   Knoch,   Jonas   Mohr,   and   Tim   Schwartz
Cognitive   Assistants
German   Research   Center   for   Artificial   Intelligence   (DFKI)
Saarbr¨ucken,   Germany
{ firstname.lastname } @dfki.de
Abstract —Industrial   testbeds   are   spawning   all   across   Europe,
focusing   on   diverse   topics.   In   our   Human-Robot-Collaboration
lab,   we   are   researching   how   the   lives   of   people   in   production
can   be   made   simpler   through   the   use   of   collaborative   robots,   but
still   safe   against   the   backdrop   of   the   necessary   changeability.
Standardized   digital   twins   based   on   Asset   Administration   Shells
embedded   in   a   service-oriented   architecture   are   an   ideal   under-
lying   information   technology   for   this   endeavor.   In   this   paper,
we   describe   such   an   infrastructure   and   outline   its   use   based   on
two   different   use   cases.   We   are   convinced   that   this   is   not   only
relevant   for   testbed   operators   who   want   to   achieve   technical   and
semantic   interoperability   of   their   facilities,   but   can   also   serve   as
a   blueprint   for   the   implementation   of   Industrie 4.0   in   small   and
medium-sized   enterprises.
Index   Terms —Asset   Administration   Shell,   Digital   Twins,   In-
dustrie 4.0,   Service   Infrastructure
I.   I NTRODUCTION
The   digitalization   of   the   industrial   sector   and   the   applica-
tions   based   on   it   within   the   context   of   Industrie 4.0   (I4.0)
require   a   standardized   information   technological   basis   that
makes   it   possible   to   describe   data   and   information   in   a
uniform   manner   and   make   it   available   across   companies.   The
Asset   Administration   Shell   (AAS)   [1]   is   an   important   key
technology   here,   enabling   asset-specific   data   to   be   captured
across the entire lifecycle and across all facets of the Reference
Architecture   Model   I4.0   (RAMI4.0)   in   different   submodels
and made available for applications on a file or service basis by
a   standardized   API   [2]   In   this   way,   a   common   understanding
of   facts   can   be   expressed   and   exchanged   when   collaborating
with   partners,   e.g.   along   a   value   chain.
Rapid   digitalization   and   appropriation   of   I4.0   concepts   be-
yond the early adopters, i.e., especially by small and medium-
sized   enterprises   (SMEs),   is   necessary   in   order   to   be   able   to
meet   future   market   requirements,   e.g.   with   regard   to   change-
able   and   shared   production   or   resilience.   In   our   opinion,
industrial   testbeds,   which   have   been   set   up   successfully   in
large   numbers   in   recent   years   with   different   focal   points,   play
a   special   role   in   this   transfer,   as   they   often   serve   as   regional
contact   points   for   SMEs.
The   German-Czech   Innovation   Laboratory   for   Human-
Robot   Collaboration   in   Industrie 4.0   (Deutsch-Tschechisches
Innovationslabor   f¨ur   M ensch- R oboter   K ollaboration   in   Indus-
trie  4.0 ),   or   short   the   MRK 4.0   lab,   was   established   in   2016.
It   is   operated   by   our   research   department   and   is   part   of
the   Power4Production   Center   for   Innovative   Production   Tech-
nologies   (https://power4production.de/en/home-english/).   Ad-
ditional   application   domains   apart   from   Industrie 4.0   include
Retail   and   Medical   Institutions.   The   lab   operates   more   than
20   collaborative   robotic   systems   (cobots)   of   different   types
like   e.g.   single-   and   dual-arm   robots   for   pick&place   tasks,
mobile systems such as autonomous mobile robots (AMR) and
automated guided vehicles (AGV) for transportation or drones
for   inspection.   Among   the   manufacturers   of   the   cobots   are
well-known   representatives   from   the   industry   like   Universal
Robots   (UR),   KUKA,   Franka   Emika   and   Mobile   Industrial
Robots.   In   order   to   establish   a   bi-directional   communication
between   humans   and   their   robotic   colleagues,   we   use   multi-
modal multisensor-systems including RGB-D cameras, motion
capturing   systems,   high-precision   laser   scanners,   laser   pro-
jectors   and   various   Extended   Reality   (XR)   devices   including
Augmented   Reality   (AR)   and   Virtual   Reality   (VR)   glasses
covering   use-cases   of   the   Industrial   Metaverse,   in   particular
remote operations such as remote teach-in and remote human-
human   collaboration   with   robotic   embodiement.
Fig.   1.
DFKI’s   German-Czech   Innovation   Laboratory   for   Human-Robot
Collaboration   in   Industrie 4.0
In   this   respect,   several   demonstration   systems   have   been
developed   in   the   context   of   research   and   industry   projects
together   with   domain   experts   from   the   industry   covering   AR-
based assistance systems for the orchestration of hybrid teams
in aircraft assembly [3], cognitive social cobots with intent and

### Page 2

activity   recognition   of   human   workers   in   order   to   assist   them
in   unergonomic,   repetitive   tasks   [4],   as   well   as   applications
and   approaches   for   remote   applications   [5],   [6].
Since   the   beginning   of   the   BaSys   project   series   (https://
www.basys40.de/) in 2016, we have also been using the lab as
an   real-world   experimentation   facility   for   the   implementation
of   an   AAS-based   service   infrastructure   and   its   application   to
build   further   industrial   demonstration   systems.
When   interacting   with   representatives   of   SMEs   throughout
our transfer activities they often like and show high interest in
our demonstrations. At the same time, they express their desire
for   standardization   as   well   as   for   easy   and   low-cost   solutions
to   achieve   the   necessary   I4.0   maturity   level   [7]   beforehand.
When   it   comes   to   collaboration   on   a   European   and   in-
ternational   scale,   e.g.   through   research   projects   like   RICAIP
(https://ricaip.eu), where different testbeds are to be connected
on   a   technical   level,   an   AAS-based   infrastructure   (together
with   other   technology   like   the   Eclipse   Data   Space   Connector
or   Gaia-X   which   is   however   out-of-scope   for   this   paper)   pro-
vides   a   huge   opportunity.   On   the   one   hand,   reaching   common
goals can be accomplished more efficiently when operating on
a   common   infrastructure.   On   the   other   hand,   deploying   AAS-
based   infrastructures   on   partner   testbeds   and   demonstrating
them the advantages will serve as a multiplier for the adoption
of   the   AAS   in   general.
In   this   paper,   with   focus   on   the   use   cases   of   adaptive
online   planning   of   production   processes   and   functional   safety,
we   describe   in   detail   the   architecture   and   use   of   our   AAS-
based infrastructure in terms of relevant submodels and service
components   in   order   to   implement   these   use   cases.   This   way,
we demonstrate how they work and give practical examples for
interested   partners   in   research   and   industry.   The   infrastructure
is based on prior conceptual work on architecture blueprints to
enable scalable vertical   integration   of   assets   with   digital twins
[8].
The   paper   is   outlined   as   follows.   First,   we   describe   our
use   cases   in   Section   II   for   the   implementation   of   which   we
used   our   core   AAS-based   service   infrastructure   as   described
in   Section   III.   Finally,   we   conclude   in   Section   IV.
II.   U SE  C ASES
In   our   BaSys   satellite   projects   BaSynaos   and   BaSySafe
we   focussed   on   (1)   online-planning   for   intralogistics   and
manufacturing   and   (2)   digital   twins   for   functional   safety.   In
this   section,   we   will   introduce   these   use   cases   and   derive   the
required   AAS   submodels   and   service   components   for   their
realization.
A.   Online-Planning   for   Intralogistics   and   Manufacturing
A   central   aspect   of   I 4.0   is   a   seamless   fusion   of   intralogis-
tics   and   manufacturing   as   essential   components   of   the   value
chain.   For   higher-level   orchestration   systems   such   as   route
and   process   planners,   a   continuous   exchange   of   information
between   involved   assets   on   the   logistics   side   and   on   the
manufacturing   side   is   indispensable   in   order   to   coordinate
the   respective   own   optimization   processes   and   thus   achieve   a
higher value stream in the factory. In order to ensure a smooth
running   of   production   processes   which   have   to   be   adapted
to   current,   potentially   high   frequently   changing   conditions   on
the   shopfloor   (especially   in   highly   dynamic   HRC   scenarios),
online   planning   systems   require   on   the   one   hand   fast   access
to   continuously   available   planning-relevant   information   both
before   and   during   production.   Such   continuous   (near)   real-
time   data   streams   that   are   produced   by   assets   are   described
in   a   dedicated   signal   submodel.   On   the   other   hand,   suitable
operational   interfaces   are   needed   for   the   control   of   involved
assets,   which   should   ideally   be   manufacturer-independent   in
order   to   reduce   integration   and   commissioning   costs.   For
that,   we   employ   control   components 1   with   its   standardized
submodels.
In   the   initialization   phase   of   the   online   planning   system,
information   about   the   overall   structure   of   the   production   site
is   necessary   to   bootstrap   an   internal   representation.   In   partic-
ular,   topology   and   layout   submodels   were   used   to   describe
hierarchical   relationships   between   different   production   areas,
manufacturing and logistics units, and storage areas, as well as
corresponding   access   points   and   route   networks   for   different
types   of   AGVs.   The   latter   were   provided   in   the   form   of
navigation graphs incorporating the VDA5050 communication
standard   (https://github.com/VDA5050/VDA5050)   to   describe
the communication between AGVs and a master control via the
layout submodel of our lab. Furthermore, asset type descriptive
submodels   with   references   to   corresponding   type   AAS   were
provided to the online planner, including submodels describing
technical   specifications,   such   as   vehicle   dimensions,   critical
charging   state,   or   speed   profiles.   The   uniform   description   of
this information by standardized submodels of the AAS results
in a significant reduction of effort when importing different but
uniformly   described   vehicle   types.
Products   to   be   manufactured   are   also   reflected   in   a   product
type   AAS   which,   in   addition   to   the   structure   of   the   product
(BOM),   describes   the   corresponding   manufacturing   process.
Capabilities   requested   therein,   such   as   joining   or   picking
up   and   placing   certain   product   parts,   are   matched   by   the
planner   before   and   during   production   with   the   capabilities
of   declared   manufacturing   units   via   their   AAS.   Fig.   2   shows
an   example   of   these   submodels   in   front   of   the   implemented
project   demonstrator.
The   execution   of   requested   capabilities   of   an   asset   is   per-
formed   by   issuing   requests   for   corresponding   skills   of   the
asset’s   control   component,   which   are   declared   in   correspond-
ing   control   component   submodels   and   linked   in   the   asset’s
capability   submodel.   An   example   is   shown   in   Fig.   3,   where   a
VDA5050-based   transport   task   is   mapped   to   a   corresponding
skill   request   (”Move   to   symbolic   position”)   of   a   real-world
AMR’s   control   component.
To   avoid   spending   a   lot   of   time   on   developing   real   robotic
skills,   which   was   not   the   focus   of   the   project,   we   use   the
simulation   feature   of   the   control   component   in   combination
1 https://wiki.eclipse.org/BaSyx   /   Documentation   /   API   /
ControlComponent

### Page 3

Fig.   2.   Simulated   product   assembly:   Online   planners   can   select   appropriate
assets   (e.g.   UR10   robot)   by   accessing   provided   product,   process   and   capa-
bility   submodels   and   bring   requested   steps   of   the   manufacturing   process   to
execution.
Fig.   3.
Execution   of   a   partially   simulated   production   process   using   our
proposed   service   infrastructure.   First   row:   (a)   Planner   dashboard   with   two
requested   instances   of   a   production   process   and   related   steps.   (b)   Control
component   states   of   involved   assets.   Second   row:   (c)   Real-world   AMR
(MiR100)   approaches   target   shelf   for   picking   parts.   (d)   Corresponding   state
in   digital   twin   with   simulated   product   parts   and   pick&drop   actions.
with   our   Unity3D-based   visualization   and   simulation   environ-
ment   also   shown   in   Fig.   3   and   Fig.   2.   Certain   skills   like
picking   raw   materials   from   a   target   container   in   a   shelf   or
dropping finalized products have not yet been implemented for
the real asset but only exist in the virtual world. However, these
simulated   skills   produce   data   just   like   the   real-world   skills
would   do   realizing   a   virtual   commissioning   utilizing   digital
twins.
B.   Digital   Twins   for   Functional   Safety
In the BaSys satellite BaSySafe a digital twin for functional
safety   was   developed.   Therefore,   a   safety   submodel   was   cre-
ated to support both the risk assessment during the engineering
phase and the monitoring of risks at runtime. During engineer-
ing,   the   assembly   system   and   its   environment   are   modelled   in
Dassault’s 3D Experience platform. Known or “native” hazard
potentials   can   be   adopted   from   the   assets   used   in   the   setup.
The   safety   engineer   is   responsible   for   the   identification   of
new   hazard   potentials   based   on   the   combination   of   the   assets
in   the   particular   setup.   A   knowledge   graph   representation   of
Fig.   4.
A   knowledge   graph   in   Neo4J   based   on   the   contents   of   AAS   and
submodels.
the   modelled   hazards   is   then   used   to   identify   hazards   that
are   not   yet   treated   appropriately.   Here,   we   have   been   using
the   Neo4j-based   knowledge   graph   illustrated   in   Fig   4.   For
the   identification   of   hazards   we   use   the   Neo4j   graph   query
language   Cypher.
All   information   during   the   engineering   process   is   stored   in
a   common   database   and   is   accessible   through   the   AAS   in
terms of the safety submodel. This information can be used to
simulate hazardous situations in a simulation environment and,
since   they   rely   on   the   same   interfaces,   prepare   a   safe   startup
of   the   assembly   system.
At   runtime,   a   safety   monitoring   tracks   if   the   hazard   po-
tentials   modelled   during   engineering   are   always   disarmed   by
the   corresponding   risk   mitigating   capabilities.   Once   a   rule
violation   is   detected,   risk   mitigating   capabilities   are   initiated.
In   the   scenario,   a   worker   is   pressing   sealing   rings   into   the
distributor housings of a gear box at an assembly work station.
The   press   action   is   disarmed   by   a   light   barrier   and   deactivates
the   press   when   a   worker   enters   the   press   area   (crossing   a
light   grid).   Wearing   mixed   reality   glasses,   such   a   light   grid
can   be   made   visible,   which   is   useful   during   risk   assessment.
Such   sensor   data   streams   are   described   in   a   respective   signal
submodel   of   the   work   station.
Since   workers   are   usually   focused   on   their   work,   they   are
inattentive   against   hazards   in   their   vicinity   when   they   are
outside   their   field   of   view.   Such   a   hazard   may   occur   from
patrolling   AGVs   carrying   out   transportation   missions.   The
pose,   i.e.   the   location   and   the   orientation,   of   an   AGV   together
with   its   planned   route   are   accessible   via   a   respective   signal
submodel. Multimodal warning mechanisms that increase with
the   proximity   of   the   hazard   are   used   to   inform   the   worker   of
a   hazard.   Fig.   5   shows   such   an   alert   containing   the   distance
of   the   mobile   robot   with   its   direction   to   the   worker.   Thereby,
accidents   through   spontaneous   movements   of   the   worker   can
be avoided. If no mixed reality glasses are worn, such informa-
tion   can   be   provided   on   traditional   worker   guidance   systems
or   using   smart   watches.

### Page 4

Fig.   5.
Alert   in   mixed   reality   glasses   notifying   the   worker   about   AGVs   in
the   vicinity.
III.   C ORE  AAS- BASED  S ERVICE  I NFRASTRUCTURE
Our   infrastructure   is   conceptually   designed   as   a   distributed
mircoservice architecture that uses a set of AAS and associated
submodels   to   uniformly   represent   asset-specific   information.
A.   Asset   Administration   Shells   and   Submodels
In   order   to   reflect   most   relevant   information   aspects   of
our   lab   within   an   exhaustive   digital   twin   with   which   typical
I4.0   and   Human   Robot   Collaboration   (HRC)   use-cases   can
be   covered,   all   relevant   tangible   and   non-tangible   assets   of
the   lab   such   as   robots,   multimodal   input   and   output   devices,
sensors,   products,   as   well   as   processes   were   represented   as
AAS and appropriate submodels. Whenever possible, we used
the submodel specifications published by the Industrial Digital
Twin   Association   (IDTA)   2   that   were   available   at   the   time.   In
addition   to   rather   immutable   submodels,   such   Digital   Name-
plate   (IDTA-02006),   Technical   Data   (IDTA-02003),   Control-
Component Type (IDTA-02015) and Instance (IDTA-02016), a
set   of   dynamic   submodels   whose   contents   might   also   change
over   time   during   production   have   been   designed   throughout
several   BaSys   satellite   projects.
Among   these,   we   designed   a   topology   submodel   for   de-
scribing   the   hierarchical   structure   of   the   production   site.   The
concept   of   that   submodel   constitutes   a   modified   version   of
the   joint   model   [9]   based   on   ANSI/ISA-88   (Physical   Model,
Process   Model)   and   ANSI/ISA-95   (Equipment   Model)   with
adequate   level   of   detail.   Fig.   6   depicts   a   description   of   the
model   in   the   AASX   format.   Therein,   we   follow   concepts
of   ISA-88   and   provide   a   detailed   modeling   of   hierarchical
relationships   across   multiple   levels   between   different   physical
entities   involved   in   the   production   process,   such   as   enter-
prises   (e.g.   DFKI),   sites   (e.g.   Power4Production),   areas   (e.g.
MRK 4.0   Lab),   work   centers   (Fig.   7)   to   work   units   (such   as
robots   or   work   stations   and   machines)   which   then   consist   of
several   equipment   modules   (such   as   grippers,   cameras,   arms
or   shelves)   again   consisting   of   several   control   modules   such
as   e.g.   fingers   and   servo   motors.
We   model   physical   entities   as   self-managed   Entity ,   i.e.
with   a   reference   to   the   respective   AAS   of   the   physical   en-
2 https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/en/content-hub/submodels
Fig.   6.   AASX-based   representation   of   our   proposed   submodel   template   for
describing   the   topology   of   a   I4.0   production   site.
Fig.   7.   Birds-eye   perspective   on   a   3D   representation   of   the   lab   highlighting
different   work   centers:   Warehouse   (red),   Quality   Assurance-Center   (yellow),
Collaborative   Assembly   Line   (green),   Teach-In   Center   (dark   blue)
tity   and   annotate   their   hierarchical   relationships   with   sub-
model   elements   of   type   Relationship .   E.g.   an   enter-
prise   contains   one   or   more   sites,   which   themselves   con-
tain   one   or   more   areas   containing   an   arbitrary   number   of
work   centers.   Work   units   are   considered   to   be   of   type
LogisticsUnit   (equipment   used   for   transport,   e.g.   an
AGV) or  ProductionUnit  (e.g. a single-arm robot) and are
equipped with an  AnnotatedRelationship  element with
a   Type   property   ( Contains ,   BelongsTo ),   which   can   be
used   to   assign   a   WorkUnit   to   an   arbitrary   topology   element,

### Page 5

Fig.   8.   AASX   submodel   describing   the   layout   of   a   production   site.
which   introduces   a   certain   flexibility   for   units   which   do   not
necessarily   belong   to   a   fixed   work   center   such   as   AGVs.   In
this   case,   such   a   work   unit   could   be   assigned   to   a   whole   area
or   site.
While   the   proposed   topology   submodel   exposes   important
information   on   hierarchical   relationships   of   physical   entities,
we   are   still   missing   layout   information   by   means   of   geomet-
rical   relationships   between   different   areas,   zones   or   stations
and   the   descriptions   of   route   networks,   e.g.   where   an   AGV
can   approach   a   certain   work   center,   where   it   is   allowed   to
drive,   or   information   on   possibilities   to   wait/park   and   charge.
To   this   end,   we   designed   a   layout   submodel ,   incorporating
concepts   of   the   VDA   5050   standard   which   describes   the
communication   between   a   control   system   and   AGVs.   Fig.   8
depicts   an   overview.
A   main   geographical   representation   of   a   production   en-
vironment   is   constituted   by   a   two-dimensional   (2D)   grid-
map   consisting   of   a   number   of   squared   cells   by   means   of
a   fixed   resolution   (meters/cell).   As   a   map   typically   belongs   to
a topological area, we added a corresponding reference to that
area.   A   zone   describes   a   rectangular   region   within   an   area.
Examples   for   zones   are   landing   zones   for   drones,   parking
zones   for   mobile   robots,   specially   annotated   zones   telling
AGVs   that   the   corresponding   region   is   not   to   be   accessed   by
them,   i.e.   forbidden,   or,   in   contrast,   should   be   considered   as
preferred when planning routes. Workspaces constitute another
type of zone, e.g. one could define an approximated workspace
on a table of a one-arm robot with a rectangular region. Zones
can   also   describe   a   functional   space,   e.g.   a   region   which
contains   several   work   units   for   assembly   can   group   them
within   a   collaborative   assembly   zone.   A   zone   is   described
by   a   2D   origin   in   map   coordinates   (meters),   a   width   (x)
and   height   (y)   in   meters   and   an   angular   deviation   from   the
map’s   global   x-Axis   (theta)   in   degrees.   Furthermore,   a   zone
contains   references   to   the   corresponding   map   object   and   the
topology   object   it   belongs   to.   For   a   workspace,   this   would
typically   be   a   WorkUnit   object   while   parking   zones   are
generally   associated   to   an   Area   element.   In   order   to   describe
a   route   network   which   can   be   used   by   AGVs,   we   follow   the
notation   of   the   VDA5050   standard   and   opt   for   a   graph-like
representation   of   navigation   graphs   consisting   of   nodes   and
relationships   of   these   nodes   (edges).   With   its   type,   a   node
represents   either   a   Waypoint ,   or   an   AccessNode   for   a
station   for   loading   and   unloading,   or   a   ChargingStation
and,   similar   to   an   area,   it   is   geographically   represented   by   a
2D coordinate and the deviation from the global x-Axis of the
map   (theta).   Optionally,   it   defines   an   allowed   deviation   for
an   AGV   from   the   intended   position   by   means   of   a   tolerance
radius   in   meters.   As   defined   in   the   VDA5050   standard,   a
node   is   considered   to   have   been   traversed   by   an   AGV   if
the   AGV   passes   the   node   within   the   defined   radius.   The
same   holds   for   the   orientation   by   means   of   the   property
AllowedDeviationTheta .   Similarly,   as   a   zone,   a   node
object   holds   references   to   its   grid   map   and   the   associated
topology   element.   Finally,   edges   (as   binary,   annotated   rela-
tionships   between   nodes)   describe   a   path   segment,   that   can
be   traversed   while   following   specific   rules   as   intended   by   the
annotation   property.   An   orientation   of   0   degrees   for   example
always   refers   to   traversing   the   edge   with   the   front   of   the
AGV   facing   in   the   direction   of   the   edge.   In   addition,   it   is
defined if rotations exceeding a certain threshold for corrective
movements   are   allowed   on   an   edge.
Control   Components   expose   a   set   of   skills   that   encapsulate
real-time requirements and thus allow an external event-driven
process   orchestrator   combining   such   skills   into   changeable
production processes. Every work unit in the lab is represented
by   a   full   stack   of   Control   Component   submodels ,   i.e,   a   Type
(IDTA-02015), an Instance (IDTA-02016) as well as a Control
Component   Interface   submodel.   The   interface   submodel   maps
the   contents   of   the   underlying   OPC-UA   information   tree   of
the   control   component   into   a   dedicated   submodel   allowing
to   control   and   query   such   a   component   via   the   REST-based
submodel endpoint. For the implementation of control compo-
nents, we use our Java-based open-source Control Component
SDK   3   that automatically generates an OPC-UA server as well
as the Instance and Interface submodels. The type submodel is
typically   modeled   by   hand   with   the   AASX   package   explorer.
In order to describe data structures and emission policies of
important   data   streams   of   an   asset,   we   refined   a   signal   sub-
model  originally designed in the BaSys satellite project BaSys-
BDE-VWS   depicted   by   Fig.   9.   The   model   is   meant   to   be   of
a   generic   form,   such   that   not   only   technical   operation   data   of
production   and   logistics   assets   such   as   joint   states   of   a   robot
arm,   battery   states,   telemetry   and   positional   data   of   AGVs
but   also   organizational   operation   data   like   states   of   control
components,   processes,   tasks   or   products   can   be   represented.
3 https://github.com/dfkibasys/control-component

### Page 6

Fig.   9.
AASX   submodel   template   for   describing   signals   provided   as   data
streams.
The   model   defines   a   set   of   message   brokers   by   which   signals
are distributed. Important properties of a message broker are its
type, e.g. an MQTT or Apache Kafka Broker and its protocol,
address   and   port   by   means   of   a   connection   string.   Signals   of
an asset are collected in a signal-set where a signal is basically
represented by its way of acquisition and provisioning. To keep
it   simple,   we   restricted   the   complex   field   of   data   acquisition
to   the   frequency   of   measurements   of   a   signal   in   terms   of   the
sampling   rate.   Similarly,   the   data   provisioning   of   a   signal   is
characterized   by   a   provisioning   rate.   Information   about   if   and
how   a   signal   has   been   pre-processed   before   its   provisioning
is   provided   by   the   Preprocessing   element   which   consists
of   several   filter   sets   which   themselves   contain   an   arbitrary
number   of   filters.   A   filter   is   described   by   its   type,   in   order
to   reveal   its   semantics,   like   e.g.   Gaussian2D,   Median1D   or
three-dimensional   high-pass   filters   which   are   then   specified
by   an   associated   configuration   string   by   means   of   a   JSON
descriptor.   Also,   a   type   of   aggregation   of   the   signal   can   be
specified by means of an aggregation mode. In order to provide
a   description   of   the   underlying   data   structure   of   a   signal,   we
added   a   schema   description   with   a   specific   type   like   JSON
schema,   Apache   Avro,   Apache   Thrift   or   Google’s   Protobuf,   a
schema   location   and   an   optional   descriptor   file   associated   to
the   data   type.   Finally,   a   signal   contains   a   reference   element   to
the   message   broker   it   is   associated   with.
Fig.   10   depicts   our   proposal   for   modelling   production
processes   in   I4.0   by   means   of   a   process   submodel .
As   before,   we   opt   for   a   BOM-like   representation   of   pro-
cesses.   Following   the   notion   of   ISA-88,   a   process   may   in-
clude   a   number   of   subordinate   processes,   which   we   call
SubProcesses  which themselves may include several oper-
ations ( Tasks ) consisting of zero or more actions. According
to   ISA-88,   a   work   unit   may   (while   offering   needed   capabili-
ties) realize a whole subprocess, a task or atomic action, which
provides   a   certain   flexibility   in   modelling.   Task   and   Action
Fig. 10.   AASX submodel template for describing different kinds of processes
in   I4.0
elements   have   the   same   structure   in   the   proposed   submodel.
A   task   is   basically   represented   by   an   Operation   element
with   a   set   of   input   and   output   parameters   (referencing   e.g.
elements   of   a   BOM   submodel   of   a   product   type   AAS),   a
maximum   and   minimum   duration   property   (i.e.   the   maximum
duration   reserved   for   the   successful   execution   of   the   task,
until   the   task   is   to   be   considered   as   delayed   and   the   duration
at   least   needed   for   the   successful   execution   of   the   task,
respectively) and a set of capability requirements. A capability
requirement   follows   the   notion   of   a   capability   descriptor   in
the   capability   submodel   (IDTA-02020).   Hence,   a   capability
requirement   consists   of   the   capability   itself   (represented   by
a   Capability   element)   and   a   set   of   capability   attributes.
An   example   would   be   the   task   of   joining   two   different   object
parts   of   certain   object   type   together   where   a   corresponding
production unit with capability  join  and related attributes for
the   associated   object   types   would   be   needed   and   to   be   iden-
tified   by   considering   the   topology   submodel   and   references
therein.   In   addition,   a   task   may   have   a   set   of   preconditions
by   means   of   PropertyValueRequirement   elements.   A
property value requirement specifies a target value, a reference
to   a   property   value   and   an   associated   logical   operator   which

### Page 7

describes   the   binary   relationship   of   the   reference   value   to
the   target   value   by   means   of   equality,   inequality,   etc.   With
this   approach,   the   execution   of   a   task   can   be   bound   to   a
necessary   precondition   related   to   e.g.   the   output   variables
of   another   task   operation.   Besides   process,   subprocess,   task
and   action   entities,   we   define   corresponding   annotated   re-
lationships   between   them,   in   order   to   model   containment
and   priority   relationships.   A   task   can   be   annotated   as   direct
successor   of   another   task   or   subprocess   or   more   general   be
annotated as to be executed before another task or subprocess.
Note   that   this   kind   of   modelling   is   not   meant   to   model   an
exact   work   plan   with   concrete   workflows   between   tasks   as   it
is   common   practice   in   BPMN   modelling   for   example.   The
proposed   process   submodel   is   meant   to   enable   a   planning
system   to   derive   such   a   work   plan   description   with   assigned
resources   by   interpreting   said   relationships.
This   submodel   can   be   used   for   describing   a   task   and
capability-based   manufacturing   process   of   a   product   as   part
of   the   type   AAS   of   the   product.   Typically,   it   is   accompanied
by   a   BOM   submodel   of   the   product,   describing   the   structure
of   parts   of   the   product.
B.   REST-based   Service   Components   and   Microservices
At   the   core   of   each   microservice   architecture   there   is   a
message broker that delivers messages according to a publish-
subscribe   model   thus   allowing   a   loose   coupling   of   a   sender
and   potentially   many   receivers.   We   use   Apache   Kafka   as
message broker due to its scalability and fast message delivery.
Kafka   also   retains   messages   for   a   configurable   amount   of
time,   allowing   microservices   to   build   up   their   own   internal
context   and   update   it   if   they   temporarily   drop   out.   However,
for   some   applications   it   is   easier   and   sometimes   the   only
possible   way   to   have   an   additional   MQTT   broker   at   hand,
e.g.   for   sending   MQTT   events   over   Websockets   to   a   browser-
based   dashboard   or   for   receiving   status   updates   from   a   PLC
via   MQTT.   We   use   the   EMQX   broker   for   that.   We   bridge
all   events   from   MQTT   to   Kafka   in   order   to   retain   these
messages   and   having   the   complete   picture   in   Kafka.   In   the
other   direction   we   only   forward   necessary   messages.   Fig.   11
illustrates the architecture and includes additional components
that   are   discussed   in   the   following.   When   performing,   e.g.
time-based   event   aggregation   or   complex   event   processing
in   a   distributed   system,   it   is   important   to   synchronize   the
system   clocks   of   all   compute   nodes   and   integrate   the   creation
timestamps   of   the   messages   into   the   messages.   We   achieve
this   with   a   central   time   server   and   by   defining   all   messages
first   in   the   Apache   Avro   interface   description   language   where
the   base   message   already   contains   a   property   for   the   creation
timestamp.   A   nice   side-effect   is   that   we   can   generate   the
message classes in multiple programming languages (currently
Java,   C#,   Python,   and   TypeScript)   for   use   in   the   different
components   in   Fig.   11.
Most important service components are the  AAS Repository
and the AAS Registry . At the moment, we use the off-the-shelf
components   provided   by   Eclipse   BaSyx,   i.e.   the   AAS   Reposi-
tory with the BaSyx REST-API and the AAS Registry in V3.0
Fig.   11.   Microservice   architecture   of   the   AAS-based   service   infrastructure
of   the   IDTA   specification   in   combination   with   a   compatibility
layer   for   seamless   interoperability   with   the   repository.   As   the
registry   was   contributed   to   BaSyx   by   us,   we   were   able   to
extended   the   API   in   order   to   provide   a   lightweight   search
functionality   over   AAS   and   submodel   descriptors.   Also,   the
registry   implementation   is   capable   of   sending   update   events
to   Apache   Kafka   whenever   a   new   AAS   or   submodel   has   been
registered   or   existing   ones   were   unregistered.   We   extensively
use   this   feature   to   dynamically   react   on   changes,   e.g.   on   the
shopfloor   when   a   new   control   component   became   available   or
to   update   the   knowledge   graph.
The   AAS   Knowledge   Graph   service   is   intended   to   always
reflect   the   structure   and   thus   also   partly   the   contents   of
registered   AAS   and   submodels.   Whenever   a   new   submodel
is   registered   it   is   structurally   integrated   into   the   knowledge
graph   as   a   sub-graph   that   is   connected   to   a   node   representing
an AAS. Additionally, references in the submodel are resolved
if   possible   by   explicitly   introducing   an   edge   between   the
reference node and the target node in the graph. If a submodel
is unregistered, the whole sub-graph is automatically removed.
As   mentioned,   the   knowledge   graph   service   relies   on   Neo4j
in   the   back-end.   Each   node   stores   a   pointer   to   its   source,   i.e.,
a   URL.   Additionally,   the   nodes   are   multi-labeled   taking   into
account   both   the   AAS   meta   model   hierarchy   as   well   as   the
semantic   Ids   of   the   submodel   elements.   This   makes   writing
Cypher   queries   for   information   retrieval   much   more   elegant.
The   Process   Control   service   processes   requests   to   perform
skills of control components. Such a request can e.g. originate
from   an   executing   BPMN   process   in   the   Camunda   process
engine   or   from   an   adaptive   online   planner   as   presented   in
Section   II-A.   In   order   to   integrate   a   control   component   in   the
infrastructure, a  Control   Component   Agent  that automatically
spawns   when   a   control   component   registers   its   submodels
closes   the   gap   between   Apache   Kafka   and   OPC-UA.
Data   Providers   are   typically   small   scripts   that   acquire
(sensor)   data   from   an   asset   and   provide   this   data   in   a   pre-
defined   (Avro)   structure   either   event-based   or   at   a   config-
urable   frequency   to   a   message   topic   in   Apache   Kafka   or   the
MQTT   broker.   This   data   stream   has   to   be   described   in   the
signal   submodel   of   the   respective   asset,   either   manually   or
(if   possible)   by   the   data   provider   itself.   If   the   data   stream   is

### Page 8

originally   published   to   MQTT   and   then   forwarded   to   Kafka,
these   two   data   streams   will   be   described   individually   in   the
signal submodel. Data providers are highly custom as they are
bound   to   a   certain   back-end   communication   technology   and   a
certain   programming   language.   As   an   example,   for   retrieving
the   battery   status   of   our   MiR100   AMRs,   we   access   the   un-
derlying Robot Operating System (ROS) environment whereas
the   joint   states   of   a   UR   robot   is   retrieved   from   an   XML-RPC
server   running   on   the   teach   panel.   Both   data   providers   are
implemented in Python and publish to Apache Kafka. Another
data provider is realized on a PLC and publishes status updates
to   MQTT   via   a   dedicated   function   block.
Part of the infrastructure is also a browser-based  Dashboard
illustrated   in   the   top-right   part   of   Fig.   3   that   lets   one   start
and   monitor   BPMN   processes   and   shows   the   current   status   of
control   components.   The   list   of   available   control   components
is   retrieved   from   the   AAS   registry.   Status   updates   of   the
control components are received via MQTT over WebSockets.
The   execution   of   a   skill   can   be   stopped   and   the   control
component   itself   can   be   reset.   This   is   accomplished   by   REST
calls   to   the   respective   control   component   interface   submodel.
C.   Container-based   Deployment
All   described   components   and   microservices   (except   the
data   providers)   are   available   as   images   on   DockerHub 4 .   With
our Docker-Compose stacks 5 , we deploy the whole infrastruc-
ture   in   a   Docker   environment   with   just   a   single   command
on   the   command   line.   Custom   AASX-files   can   be   dropped
in   the   data/aasx   folder   that   is   mounted   into   the   repository
container   for   hosting.   Likewise,   custom   BMPN   processes   can
be   dropped   in   the   data/processes   folder   for   an   automatic
deployment   into   Camunda.   We   typically   use   this   approach   for
spawning   a   development   environment   on   a   developer’s   com-
puter   as   well   as   for   setting   up   the   actual   lab   infrastructure.   A
dedicated entry page provides easy access to each component’s
user   interface.
IV.   C ONCLUSION   AND  F UTURE  W ORK
In   this   paper,   we   gave   a   detailed   look   into   our   AAS-based
service   infrastructure   and   its   components   in   terms   of   AAS,
submodel templates and their application in the context of our
lab   as   well   as   core   software   services.   We   also   explained   how
these   components   interact.   The   infrastructure   is   extendable
and   is   published   as   open   source   on   GitHub.   Directly   usable
components   are   available   on   DockerHub.   The   practical   use
cases implemented on the infrastructure as well as on available
hardware   in   our   lab   prove   the   usability   of   the   infrastructure   in
an   industrial   context.   Along   with   this,   we   believe   that   trans-
ferability   and   applicability   to   similar   shopfloors   is   possible.
Operators   of   other   I4.0   testbeds   as   well   as   SMEs   in   particular
can   benefit   from   this.
The   wheel   of   innovation   with   regard   to   the   AAS   and
submodel   specifications   is   accelerating.   We   will   carefully
analyze   which   newly   released   specifications   to   adopt,   e.g.
4 https://hub.docker.com/u/eclipsebasyx,   https://hub.docker.com/u/dfkibasys
5 https://github.com/dfkibasys/docker
hierarchical   structures   (IDTA-02011)   in   combination   with
topological   information.   We   plan   also   to   improve   individual
services   and   eliminate   known   limitations.   For   instance,   the
knowledge   graph   service   currently   cannot   react   to   structural
or   value   changes   in   a   submodel.   This   will   be   tackled   once
the   infrastructure   has   been   fully   upgraded   to   the   latest   stable
version   3.0   of   the   AAS   specification.   Then,   we   will   also
evaluate   the   use   of   the   recently   released   BaSyx   DataBridge.
In   the   AIQUAMA   project   we   are   currently   seamlessly
integrating   new   sensors   like   cameras   or   scales   together   with
corresponding AI services for hand tracking running on Nvidia
Jetson   edge   devices   into   the   infrastructure.   This   also   entails
the   switch   to   Kubernetes   to   enable   an   actual   distribution   of
services   on   multiple   nodes   in   a   computing   cluster.   In   the
frame   of   the   European   RICAIP   project,   we   plan   to   connect
our   lab   with   I4.0   testbeds   of   partners   and   introduce   additional
components   for   an   agent-based   production.   Gaia-X   and   the
EDC   will   also   play   a   role   here.
A CKNOWLEDGMENT
This   work   has   been   funded   by   the   German   Ministry   for
Education   and   Research   (BMBF)   in   the   context   of   the   project
BaSys4Transfer   (01IS22089C).   We   thank   our   project   partners
SYNAOS   GmbH   and   Engrotec   GmbH   &   Co.   KG   for   the
extraordinary   collaboration   in   our   BaSys   satellite   projects
BaSynaos   and   BaSySafe.
R EFERENCES
[1]   IDTA,   “Details   of   the   Asset   Administration   Shell   -   Part   1,”   2023.
[Online].   Available:   https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/wp-content/uploads/
2023/04/IDTA-01001-3-0   SpecificationAssetAdministrationShell   Part1
Metamodel.pdf
[2]   ——, “Details of the Asset Administration Shell - Part 2,” 2023. [Online].
Available:
https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/
IDTA-01002-3-0   SpecificationAssetAdministrationShell   Part2   API.pdf
[3]   A.   Luxenburger,   J.   Mohr,   T.   Spieldenner,   D.   Merkel,   F.   Espinosa,
T.   Schwartz,   F.   Reinicke,   J.   Ahlers,   and   M.   Stoyke,   “Augmented   reality
for   human-robot   cooperation   in   aircraft   assembly,”   in   Proceeding   of   the
International   Conference   on   Artificial   Intelligence   and   Virtual   Reality
(AIVR’19) .
IEEE,   2019,   pp.   263–266.
[4]   S.   Knoch,   M.   H¨uster,   M.   Jost,   J.   Mohr,   D.   Merkel,   A.   Luxenburger,
T.   Schwartz,   J.-J.   Kim,   D.-Y.   Koh,   and   J.   Park,   “Wall-et:   Assistance
in   supermarkets   and   warehouses   through   social   cognitive   robots,”   in
Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and
Virtual   Reality   (AIVR’22) .
IEEE,   2022,   pp.   219–220.
[5]   C.   Jacob,   F.   Espinosa,   A.   Luxenburger,   D.   Merkel,   J.   Mohr,   T.   Schwartz,
N. Gajjar, and K. Rekik, “Digital twins for distributed collaborative work
in   shared   production,”   in   Proceedings   of   the   International   Conference   on
Artificial   Intelligence   and   Virtual   Reality   (AIVR’22) .
IEEE,   2022,   pp.
210–212.
[6]   N. Kleer, M. Rekrut, J. Wolter, T. Schwartz, and M. Feld,   “A multimodal
teach-in approach to the pick-and-place problem in human-robot collabo-
ration,”   in   Companion   of   the   International   Conference   on   Human-Robot
Interaction   (HRI’23) .
ACM,   2023,   p.   81–85.
[7]   G.   Schuh,   R.   Anderl,   J.   Gausemeier,   M.   ten   Hompel,   and   W.   Wahlster,
Eds.,   Industrie   4.0   Maturity   Index:   Managing   the   Digital   Transformation
of   Companies ,   ser.   acatech   Studie.
M¨unchen:   Utz,   2017.
[8]   F.   Schnicke,   T.   Kuhn,   T.   Klausmann,   S.   Gr¨uner,   and   D.   Porta,   “Architec-
ture   blueprints   for   the   application   of   the   industry   4.0   asset   administration
shell,”   in   Proceedings   of   the   International   Conference   on   Emerging
Technologies   and   Factory   Automation   (ETFA’22) .
IEEE   Press,   2022,
p.   1–8.
[9]   D.   Gocheva,   I.   Batchkova,   M.   Dobrev,   and   K.   Velev,   “Domain   ontology
development   for   engineering   support   systems,”   in   International   Confer-
ence   AUTOMATICS   AND   INFORMATICS   (ICAI’09) ,   2009,   pp.   III–9   –
III–12.