# ==> picture [101 x 55] intentionally omitted <==

Source: MiR100.pdf


---

### Page 1

MiR 100
Mobile Industrial Robots
User Guide
Document version 1.4
Original version (en)

### Page 2

Copyright and disclaimer
All rights reserved. No parts of this manual may be reproduced in any form without the express
written permission of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (MiR). MiR makes no warranties, express or
implied, in respect of this document or its contents. In addition, the content of the document is subject
to change without prior notice. Every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this manual.
Nevertheless, MiR assumes no responsibility for errors or omissions or any damages resulting from the
use of the information contained.
Copyright © 2016, by Mobile Industrial Robots ApS
Contact the manufacturer:
Mobile Industrial Robots
Emil Neckelmanns Vej 15F
DK-5220 Odense SØ
www.mir-robots.com
Phone: +45 20 377 577
Email: support@mir-robots.com
CVR: 35251235
Quick Access to support
Scan the QR code to go
to the MiR Support site.

### Page 3

Table of contents
1
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................ 5
1.1
Document history ....................................................................................................................... 5
1.2
Product presentation .................................................................................................................. 5
1.3
The delivery ................................................................................................................................ 6
1.4
Identification label ...................................................................................................................... 6
2
Safety .................................................................................................................................................. 7
2.1
Safety concept ............................................................................................................................ 7
2.2
General safety instructions ......................................................................................................... 7
2.3
Lithium battery ........................................................................................................................... 9
2.4
Safety circuit ............................................................................................................................. 10
2.5
Applied standards ..................................................................................................................... 10
3
Description ........................................................................................................................................ 11
3.1
Vehicle main parts .................................................................................................................... 11
3.2
Main components ..................................................................................................................... 12
3.3
Sensor systems ......................................................................................................................... 13
3.4
Light indicators ......................................................................................................................... 13
3.5
Drive modes .............................................................................................................................. 13
3.6
The vehicle’s main functions .................................................................................................... 14
4
Technical specifications .................................................................................................................... 15
4.1
Capacity .................................................................................................................................... 15
4.2
Dimensions ............................................................................................................................... 15
4.3
Main components ..................................................................................................................... 15
5
Getting started.................................................................................................................................. 17
5.1
Unpacking ................................................................................................................................. 17
5.2
Charging the vehicle ................................................................................................................. 18
5.3
Placing the top module ............................................................................................................. 19
5.4
Start the vehicle ........................................................................................................................ 19
5.5
Test the vehicle ......................................................................................................................... 20
5.6
Shutting down the vehicle ........................................................................................................ 21
5.7
Packaging and transport ........................................................................................................... 21
6
Maintenance ..................................................................................................................................... 25
7
Tips and Troubleshooting ................................................................................................................. 25
8
Disposal of battery, electronic and electric components ................................................................. 25
9
Service .............................................................................................................................................. 25

### Page 4

Appendix A: Payload specifications .......................................................................................................... 26
Appendix B: MiR100 dimension drawings ................................................................................................ 28
Appendix C: Declaration of conformity .................................................................................................... 29
Appendix D: Accessories made standard as of release 1.5 ...................................................................... 30
Application interface ............................................................................................................................ 30
Interface to docking station ................................................................................................................. 30

### Page 5

Introduction
User Guide v. 1.4
5
1   Introduction
This user guide contains information about the vehicle structure, use and maintenance.
Latest version and further documentation of special applications are available at the support site
https://mirrobot.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/1 .
The user guide is intended for retailers and end-customers responsible for or directly involved in the
integration, operation and field maintenance of the MiR100. Users are expected to have a basic level of
mechanical and electrical training. No prior knowledge about robots in general is required.
1.1   Document history
Version
Date
SW/HW version
Changes
1.0
21.04.2016
1.5
First edition
1.1
27.04.2016
1.5
Updates to instruction on emergency
stop mounting
1.2
03-05-2016
1.6
Imperial units (US standard) added
1.3
04-07-2016
1.6.3
Update of Maintenance chapter and
Declaration of conformity
1.4
15-07-2016
1.6.3
Appendix D added: information about
interfaces to docking station and
external applications
1.2   Product presentation
MiR100 is an automatic vehicle that can transport materials internally within factories, hospitals,
department stores, supermarkets and a host of other industrial locations.
The user provides the destination of product delivery via a web interface. MiR100 can be set up to run a
fixed route (Route), be called on demand (Taxi) or perform a more special operation (Mission).
MiR100 has a map that can be programmed the first time the vehicle is used. While operating, the MiR100
automatically avoids obstacles (people, furniture) that are not mapped. MiR100's internal map contains
specific locations (office, hall, John's room, etc.) which can be used for logistical planning.
Each vehicle has its own network. See separate setup sheet.
The vehicle is controlled from a website (HTML5), which is accessed via a browser on a PC, smartphone or
tablet.

### Page 6

Introduction
User Guide v. 1.4
6
1.3   The delivery
The box includes the following parts:
•
The vehicle
•
Emergency stop box and instructions for mounting
(stored inside vehicle)
•
Charging cable
•
Setup sheet and declaration of conformity
•
USB flash drive containing
o   Declaration of conformity
o   User Guide
o   Setup sheet
•
Top Camera (optional)
•
Tablet Kit (optional)
1.4   Identification label
The identification label of the MiR is placed inside the robot next to the rear scanner and shows the
following information:
CE
Mobile Industrial Robots ApS declares that the MiR100 meets the
requirements of the applicable EC directives (see chapter 2 Safety)
Serial no.
The 15-digit serial number is a unique identifier of the robot
MiR100 X.X
Shows name and hardware version of the robot
Mobile Industrial Robots ApS
Emil Neckelmanns Vej 15F
DK-5220 Odense
Denmark
Serial no.: 160100000150097 MiR100 1.5
Made in Denmark 2016
MiR100 identification nameplate example

### Page 7

Safety
User Guide v. 1.4
7
2   Safety
2.1   Safety concept
This manual contains notices you have to observe in order to ensure your personal safety, as well as to
prevent damage to property. The notices referring to your personal safety are highlighted in the manual by a
safety alert symbol. These notices shown below are graded by signal words to indicate degree of danger.
Danger
indicates an immanently hazardous situation that  will  result in death or
severe personal injury if proper precautions are not taken.
Warning
indicates a potentially hazardous situation that  could  result in death or
severe personal injury if proper precautions are not taken.
Caution
indicates a situation that  could  result in minor personal injury or
damage to the equipment if proper precautions are not taken.
Notice
indicates a situation that  could  result in property damage if proper
precautions are not taken.
2.2   General safety instructions
This section contains general safety notes. Some of safety notes are repeated or further specified in other
sections of the manual and further safety notes are present throughout the manual.
Warning  1.   Ensure proper mounting of loads during transport
Danger of personal injury from overturning robot or falling load
All accessories and loads mounted on top of the vehicle should be fastened
correctly and meet specifications. See section 5.3 and Appendix A Payload
specifications.
2.   Avoid leakage of fluid during transport
Danger of personal injury from leaking fluid
Make sure that loads containing fluids do not leak during transport.
3.   Use only the original charger
Danger of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
Use of other charger than the one supplied by the manufacturer can ruin the
battery and may cause fire.
4.   Update maps to avoid hazards on the route
Danger of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
Make sure to update maps with areas without drive surfaces such as stairways.
5.   Do not drive vehicle irresponsibly
Danger of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
The vehicle should not be driven over edges or in other ways operated
irresponsibly.

### Page 8

Safety
User Guide v. 1.4
8
Caution  1.   Do not use the vehicle to transport people
Risk of personal injury and damage to the vehicle
The vehicle should never be used to transport people. This will revoke compliance
with the standard EN 1525 Safety for unmanned trucks.
2.   Avoid gradients above 5% on the route
Risk of personal injury and damage to the vehicle
The surface grade (ramps, etc.) cannot exceed 5% as this may cause skidding.
3.   Only drive on even and dry surface
Risk of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
Wet and uneven surface may cause skidding.
4.   Do not overload the vehicle
Risk   of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
The maximum payload is 100 kg (220.5 lb.) for load on top of the vehicle. If
exceeded it may cause overturning, falling load and damage to the vehicle.
5.   Do not use vehicle on board ships
Risk of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
Unstable surface caused by moving vessel may cause the vehicle to skid.
6.   Turn off the main power immediately after removal of top cover
Risk of personal injury and/or damage to the vehicle
Turn off the main power relay to avoid short circuit.
Notice
1.   Indoor use only
Risk of damage to the vehicle
The vehicle is made for indoor use only and should never be used outdoor.
2.   Avoid small objects on the floor in the vehicle’s area
Risk of property damage and/or minor damage to vehicle
The vehicle cannot detect obstacles taller than 50 mm (2”) and may overrun smaller
objects.
3.   Remove unwanted objects from the floor in the vehicle’s area
Risk of inefficient execution of orders
The vehicle will go around objects that are not part of the map but this may
influence the efficiency of the planned route.
4.   Avoid overheating of components
Risk of damage to the vehicle or vehicle components
The ambient temperature in the vehicle’s environment must not exceed
50° C (122° F).
5.   Avoid exposure the vehicle to excessively humid or dry environment
Risk of damage to vehicle or vehicle components
The ambient humidity in the vehicle’s environment must be within the
specifications, see Technical specifications p.15.

### Page 9

Safety
User Guide v. 1.4
9
6.   Do not expose the vehicle to water
Risk of damage to vehicle or vehicle components
The vehicle is not designed for operation in wet environments, for example
production environments where water vapors, squirts or jets occur.
7.   Do not remove components for separate use
Manufacturer’s warranty will be void
MiR takes not responsibility for damage to components removed from the vehicle
and used for other purposes than the intended.
8.   Avoid blocking of sensors
Reduced functionality
Laser scanners, cameras or other sensors should not be blocked as this will obstruct
normal functionality of the vehicle.
2.3   Lithium battery
Lithium batteries are primary power sources with high energy content designed to represent the highest
possible degree of safety.
Warning Potential hazard
Lithium battery packs may get hot, explode or ignite and cause serious injury if they are
abused electrically or mechanically.
Observe the following precautions when handling and using lithium batteries:
•
Shut-off the battery when not in use.
•
Do not short-circuit, recharge or connect with false polarity.
•
Do not expose to temperature beyond the specified temperature range or
incinerate the battery.
•
Do not crush, puncture or disassemble battery. The battery contains safety and
protection devices, which, if damaged, may cause the battery to generate heat,
explode or ignite
•
Do not allow the battery to get wet.
•
In the event the battery leaks and the fluid gets into one’s eye, do not rub the
eye.  Rinse well with water and immediately seek medical care.  If left untreated,
the battery fluid could cause damage to the eye.
•
User only the original charger and never charge unattended.

### Page 10

Safety
User Guide v. 1.4
10
2.4   Safety circuit
If a person or other moving object enters the safety zones for MiR100 where the planner due to response
time, errors etc. does not respond, the safety circuit will force the robot into emergency stop and the robot
stops immediately. When the person or object is out of the safety zone again, the emergency will reset
automatically.
MiR100 is designed with total redundant electrical safety circuit including Sick Safety components. If any
internal errors in the safety circuit occur, the robot will immediately go into emergency stop which means all
moving parts will be voltage free by mechanical disconnection. Only when the redundancy is provided, it is
possible to reset the emergency stop and continue.
2.5   Applied standards
The MiR100 vehicle meets the following directives:
2006/42/EC
The EU Machinery Directive
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on machinery, and amending
Directive 95/16/EC (recast).
2014/30/EU
The EU EMC Directive
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the harmonization of
the laws of the Member States relating to electromagnetic compatibility (recast).
2014/35/EU
The EU Low Voltage Directive
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the harmonization
of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of electrical
1999/5/EC
The EU Radio Equipment Directive
Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 1999 on radio equipment and
telecommunications terminal equipment and the mutual recognition of their conformity.
In addition, the following standards or parts thereof are applied:
EN 61000-6-2
EMC: Immunity for industrial environments
EN 61000-6-4
EMC: Emission standard for industrial environments
EN 60601-1-1
EMC: Limit value for medicinal for medicinal equipment
EN 13849-1
Machine safety: General Construction
EN 13849-2
Machine safety: Validation
EN 13850
Machine safety: Emergency stop and the creation of this
EN 13855
Machine safety: Placement of safety measures
EN 1525
Safety for unmanned trucks
EN 1175-1
Safety for battery driven trucks
The manufacturer hereby declares that the MiR100 1.X vehicle meets the significant demands and other
relevant regulations in the Machinery Directive 2006/42/EF.
See also appendix C.

### Page 11

Description
User Guide v. 1.4
11
3   Description
3.1   Vehicle main parts
1
Top cover
8
Ultrasonic sensors
14 Front skirt
2
3
Laser scanner
Rear edge cover
9
On/Off button and scanner
reset button (yellow)
15 Drive wheel
4
Caster wheel
10 Protective cover
16 Side skirt
5
Protection cover
11 HDMI port
17 Caster wheel
6
Power port
12 USB port
18 Mooring holes
7
Rear skirt
13 3D Depth camera
Parts Item
Description
Parts Item
Description
Laser scanner
Monitors plane at 20 cm
height
On / Off button
Light signal given during
startup and shutdown
Drive Wheel
Differential control
HDMI port
Connects a screen to the
vehicle PC
Protective cover
Protects corners
USB port
Connects to the vehicle's PC
Scanner Reset button Resets laser scanners
3D Depth Camera
Looks for objects on the floor
and outside the laser plane
Power port
Connects 230V to charger
Caster wheel
Stabilizes vehicle
Skirts
Protects chassis
Mooring Holes
For mounting of top module
Top cover
Protects the main parts
Ultrasonic Sensor
Detects smooth surfaces

### Page 12

Description
User Guide v. 1.4
12
3.2   Main components
#
Component
Description
#
Component
Description
1
Breaker
Automatic fuse between
batteries and
components.
11
Optocoupler
Communications for
emergency stop.
2
12V Power
Supply
Power to the NUC and
router.
12
NUC PC
The main computer.
3
Motor controller
Manages the two
motor drives.
13
SICK laser scanner 1
Front laser scanner
4
Redundant
drive
Relays controlled by SICK
modules supplying the
motor controller.
14
SICK laser scanner 2
Rear laser scanner.
5
Brake relay
Ensures immediate motor
brake when emergency
brake is activated.
15
Battery charger
(hidden under
emergency stop)
Internal mounted
charger, for charging the
battery.
6
MiR board
Interface board for
gyroscope, accelerometer,
ultrasound, light.
16
Charge port.
Battery charger port. When
the power cable is connected;
emergency stop is activated.
7
Router
Local network.
17
Start/Stop
On/Off Button Controls
battery power.
8
24/24 V switch
mode power supply
Provides safety
components. Ensures
stable voltage.
18
5V Power Supply
Power to the MiR board.
9
Fuse group
Plug connections to chassis
and voltage supplies.
19
Battery
Main power for the robot.
10
SICK safety
modules
Communication between
sensor signals and control
of the vehicle.
20
Front camera
Obstacles avoidance camera.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

### Page 13

Description
User Guide v. 1.4
13
3.3   Sensor systems
External sensors
Internal sensors
•   Camera
•   Gyro
•   Laser scanner
•   Motor encoder
•   Ultrasonic
sensors
3.4   Light indicators
The light signals on the MiR100 indicate the current operational state. Colors may be adapted to individual user
needs but MiR100 is delivered with the following setup.
3.5   Drive modes
The vehicle has differentially geared steering for
high maneuverability (see illustration). Two drive
wheels are located in the middle of the vehicle,
with one on each side.
The vehicle can generally operate in the same places
as a wheelchair and can handle a 5% grade.
Forward
Reverse
Left turn
Right turn
Left rotation
Right rotation

### Page 14

Description
User Guide v. 1.4
14
3.6   The vehicle’s main functions
1.   Driving in a populated workspace
The vehicle is designed to operate among people
2.   Overall route planning and local adjustments
The vehicle plans a general route to its target destinations. When the vehicle encounters obstacles which
are not in the map (like people and objects), adjustments are made to the route.
3.   Sound and light signals
The vehicle continuously signals with light and sounds indicating its current mode, for example waiting
for job, driving to destination, destination reached, alert mode.
4.   Planning of driving and receiving a package
A web interface, which is accessed from a PC, smartphone or tablet, monitors the vehicle and gives the
user easy and intuitive operation of the vehicle.
5.   Alert for “lost”
If the vehicle comes to a situation where it cannot find a safe path to its destination, it stops, turn on the
yellow-purple error lights and a customer defined catch action can be used to alert people or take other
actions.
6.   Automatic deceleration for obstacles
The vehicle has a number of built-in sensors which slows it down when detecting obstacles in front of
the vehicle.
7.   Optimal surface operations
The vehicle is made to run on a level, dry floor. The on vehicle-mounted sensors detect and avoid objects
above 50 mm (2”) from floor level.
8.   Internal map
MiR100 uses an internal map for route planning. MiR100 can use a floor plan from a CAD system or can
create a map by the user navigating the vehicle manually. The vehicle's sensors detect walls, doors,
furniture and create a map based on this input. Destinations and positions are added; for example, the
warehouse.

### Page 15

Technical specifications
User Guide v. 1.4
15
4   Technical specifications
4.1   Capacity
Load
Load surface:
600 x 800 mm - ½ EU pallet
(23.5” x 31.5”)
Load weight:
Up to 100 kg (220.5 lb.)
(See appendix A for payload specifications)
Speed and Performance
Running time:
10 hours or 20 km (12.5 mi)
Maximum speed:
1.5 m/s (5 ft./s)
corresponding to 5.6 km/hour (3.5 mi/h)
Maximum grade increase:
5% with 100 kg (220.5 lb.) load
Ambient temperature range:
+5° C to +50° C (+41° F to + 122° F)
Humidity:
10-95% non-condensing
Power supply
Output voltage range:
26-24 V AC
4.2   Dimensions
See also dimension drawings in Appendix B.
Length:
850 mm (33.5”)
Width:
600 mm (23.5”)
Height:
350 mm (13.75”)
Height above floor:
50 mm (2”)
Weight without load
62.5 kg (137.75”)
4.3   Main components
Battery 1
Battery type:
1 Li-ion battery
Capacity:
40 Ah, 24 V
1  ) Lithium batteries are subject to special transportation regulations according to United Nations "Regulation of Dangerous
Goods, UN 3481". Special transport documentation is required to observe these regulations. This may influence both
transport time and costs.

### Page 16

Technical specifications
User Guide v. 1.4
16
Charging time:
Up to 3 hours (0-80% 2 hours)
SICK laser scanners (2pcs)
Range:
270° visual protection
Visual indicators
LED color light bar (on four sides):
Indication of operating status
Audio indicators
Built-in loudspeaker:
3 W (below 60 dB)
Top module
Maximum height from floor to top:
1800 mm (70.75”)
Center of gravity:
Lower than 900 mm (35.5”) above the floor

### Page 17

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
17
5   Getting started
5.1   Unpacking
1   Lift off the lid from the pallet and remove
the top foam and side foam pieces; then
remove the two pallet frames.
2   Lift off the top cover of the vehicle.
•   Remove the emergency stop box placed
inside the robot, (1).
•   Connect the main power cable to the
battery, (2).
•   Turn on the four relays. Start with the
main power = the outer 32A, (3).
3   Put the cover back on, and fasten and
connect the emergency stop box on
top of the vehicle as shown in the enclosed
instruction sheet.
2
1
3

### Page 18

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
18
4   Place the packaging top lid as a ramp as
shown.
Using the manual joystick mode, you can now
drive the vehicle down the ramp.
Note : It is recommended to drive it down
backwards.
5.2   Charging the vehicle
To charge the vehicle:
1.   Turn the vehicle off on the black On/Off button.
2.   Add the charge plug to the vehicle.
3.   Connect the charge cable to a regular power outlet.
After a maximum of 3 hours the vehicle is fully
charged. The charger shows a green light when the
battery is charged.
Tip: Charging can start while the vehicle is shutting
down (it can take up to a couple of minutes to shut
down).
Remove charger:
1.   Disconnect the charger from power.
2.   Remove the charge plug from the vehicle.
Caution:  Do not leave the charger with the power
turned on when not connected to the vehicle!
Notice:  Use only the original power cable.
Charge port
OFF
ON
On/Off rotary
knob

### Page 19

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
19
5.3   Placing the top module
Top modules and payload should be fastened using the self-tightening conically shaped mooring holes:
Caution:  Before adding the top module, the emergency stop box must be removed and remounted
on the top module in a position where it can be reached from all sides of the module.
Notice:  Stay within the specifications for weight and the payload’s center of gravity, see Appendix A.
5.4   Start the vehicle
To start the vehicle:
1.
Turn the black On/Off button on the front of the
vehicle.
•   After five seconds, a yellow light will
illuminate.
•   After one minute, it changes to a red light.
•   The computer system is now on.
2.
Press the blinking blue reset button on the
emergency box. The vehicle is now ready for operation.
Notice:  The emergency stop button must be disengaged in order for the reset button to work.
Reset button
On/Off button

### Page 20

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
20
5.5   Test the vehicle
Before the first drive, test the vehicle:
1.   Log on to the MiR Web Interface for the vehicle
– see attached setup sheet.
2.   Go to Service > Status > Diagnostics.
3.   Make sure that all components work: click on
individual components or click on Expand all.
Check that each sub component works. Status
should be green and read OK.
Manual operation of the vehicle happens through the MiR
Web Interface via the “joystick”.
Tip :  For more information, see MiR Web Interface
user guide

### Page 21

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
21
5.6   Shutting down the vehicle
To turn off the vehicle:
1.   Use the emergency stop – press the red
button.
That will turn off the power to the motors.
2.   Turn the black On/Off button on the front
of the vehicle.
3.   Wait for the light to turn off - there is now
no more power going to the vehicle.
5.7   Packaging and transport
Caution:   Turn off automatic relays during transport
Make sure all relays are turned off as described below.
Caution:   Special requirements for transport with lithium battery
Transport of the vehicle with battery should follow regulations as described in Technical
specifications, p 15.
To prepare the vehicle for transportation:
Use the original packaging when transporting the vehicle. Shown below is the packaging on a
wooden pallet:
Emergency stop
On/Off button
Top foam
Pallet w bottom plate
Lid
Frames
Side foam
End foam

### Page 22

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
22
1   Place the packaging top lid as a ramp on the
pallet.
Using the manual joystick mode, you can
now drive the vehicle onto the pallet.
Note : It is recommended to back the vehicle
onto the pallet.
2   Turn the vehicle off, dismount the
emergency stop, and remove the top
cover.
3   Turn off the four relays.
4   Remove the pole cover form the
battery.

### Page 23

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
23
5   Place the dismounted emergency stop on top
of the battery
6   Put the top cover back on and place the pallet
frames
7   Fit the end foam in the rear and the side foam
in each corner.
Tip: the side foam is easily added by first
placing the foam diagonally by the two laser
scanners. During placement you can move
the vehicle to make sure it is centered
correctly.
8   Place the top foam on top of the vehicle.

### Page 24

Getting started
User Guide v. 1.4
24
9   Place the lid and tie down the box making
sure the lid does not come undone.

### Page 25

Maintenance
User Guide v. 1.4
25
6   Maintenance
Test the vehicle regularly and clean it with a damp cloth (No compressed air).
1.   Remove dirt from wheels.
2.   Check the wheels for wear and tear. The caster wheels should be replaced once a year.
3.   Clean the optics cover of the laser sensors regularly for optimal performance. Avoid aggressive
or abrasive cleaning agents.
Note : Static charges cause dust particles to be attracted to the optics cover. You can diminish
this effect by using the anti-static plastic cleaner (SICK part no. 5600006) and the SICK lens cloth
(part no. 4003353) See manufacturer's own documentation.
4.   Make sure that the holes for the camera and ultrasound are unobstructed.
5.   For spare parts contact MiR support .
7   Tips and Troubleshooting
•   If the vehicle experiences an emergency stop, pull it to an unobstructed area.
•   If MiR shows an error message on the way to destination, check if the destination is blocked or if
the vehicle does not drive well:
1.   Make sure that the vehicle’s destination corresponds with its position on the map.
2.   Check that the camera is unobstructed and working.
3.   Check that status is OK in the Diagnostic menu in the MiR Web Interface.
4.   Check that the wheels are unobstructed and not tangled up in anything.
8   Disposal of battery, electronic and electric components
Battery, electronic and electric equipment may not be disposed of in the municipal waste disposal
services under observance of the Directive 2002/96/EC on waste electronic and electrical equipment
(WEEE).
Such waste material can be returned to a locally approved disposal service. Observe the specific
regulations valid in your country.
9   Service
If you need to have the vehicle serviced, contact your retailer.
Find contact information on Mobile Industrial Robot’s website:
http://mobile-industrial-robots.com/en/retailers/

### Page 26

Appendix A
User Guide v. 1.4
26
Appendix A: Payload specifications
The following drawings illustrate the center of mass (CoM) specifications for safe operation at different
payloads.
Maximum load height should be 1.8 m (6 ft.).
Front
Rear
Front
Front
Rear
Front
Units: mm
Units: mm
(55 lb.)
(110 lb.)

### Page 27

Appendix A
User Guide v. 1.4
27
Front
Rear
Front
Front
Rear
Front
Units: mm
Units: mm
(165.5 lb.)
(220 lb.)

### Page 28

Appendix B
User Guide v. 1.4
28
Appendix B: MiR100 dimension drawings

### Page 29

Appendix C
User Guide v. 1.4
29
Appendix C: Declaration of conformity

### Page 30

Appendix D
User Guide v. 1.4
30
Appendix D: Accessories made standard as of release 1.5
As of release 1.5 the MiR100 comes with application interface and interface to docking station as
standard.
Application interface
The application interface has an RJ45 ethernet connector and a Neutrik FC4 FDL1-B connector (enlarged
picture) for connection to external hardware such as hook.
Pin number
Signal name
Max. current
Remarks
1
Battery voltage
3A
Always on
2
Battery voltage
3A
Starts with the robot
3
Battery voltage
10A
Stops by emergency stop
4
GND
10A
Ground
Tabel 1: Neutrik FC4 FDL1-B pin connectors
Interface to docking station
The two pad connectors on the front skirt of the MiR100 are used to connect to corresponding charging
poles for automatic charging with the MiR100 Docking station.