# ==> picture [72 x 43] intentionally omitted <==

Source: MiR250.pdf


---

### Page 1

User Guide  (en)
Date: 07/2020
Revision: v.1.1

### Page 2

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
2
Copyright and disclaimer
All rights reserved. No parts of this manual may be reproduced in any form without the
express written permission of Mobile Industrial Robots A/S (MiR). MiR makes no warranties,
expressed or implied, in respect of this document or its contents. In addition, the contents of
the document are subject to change without prior notice. Every precaution has been taken in
the preparation of this manual. Nevertheless, MiR assumes no responsibility for errors or
omissions or any damages resulting from the use of the information contained.
Copyright © 2020 by Mobile Industrial Robots A/S.
Contact the manufacturer:
Mobile Industrial Robots A/S
Emil Neckelmanns Vej 15F
DK-5220 Odense SØ
the MiR website
Phone: +45 20 377 577
Email: support@mir-robots.com
CVR: 35251235

### Page 3

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
3
Table of contents
1. About this document
8
1.1 Where to find more information
8
1.2 Version history
9
2. Product presentation
10
2.1 Main features of MiR250
11
2.2 Top modules
12
2.3 External parts
13
2.4 Internal parts
19
3. Accessing the internal parts
27
3.1 Front compartment
27
3.2 Rear compartment
28
3.3 Side compartments
30
3.4 Top compartments
30
4. Safety
32
4.1 Safety message types
32
4.2 General safety precautions
33
4.3 Intended use
36
4.4 Users
37
4.5 Foreseeable misuse
38
4.6 Warning label
39
4.7 Residual risks
39
5. Getting started
41
5.1 In the box
41

### Page 4

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
4
5.2 Unpacking MiR250
42
5.3 Connecting the battery and powering up
45
5.4 Connecting to the robot interface
48
5.5 Driving the robot in Manual mode
50
5.6 Moving the robot by hand
52
5.7 Checking the hardware status
54
5.8 Mounting the nameplate
55
5.9 Shutting down the robot
57
6. Battery and charging
59
6.1 Charging the robot
59
6.2 Enabling fast swap and swapping out the lithium-ion battery
60
6.3 Battery storage and disposal
64
7. IT security
66
7.1 Managing users and passwords
66
7.2 Software security patches
66
7. Navigation and control system
68
7.3 System overview
68
7.4 User input
70
7.5 Global planner
70
7.6 Local planner
72
7.7 Obstacle detection
73
7.8 Localization
78
7.9 Motor controller and motors
81
7.10 Brakes
81

### Page 5

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
5
7. Safety system
83
7.11 System overview
83
7.12 Collision avoidance
88
7.13 Overspeed avoidance
93
7.14 Stability
94
7.15 Emergency stop circuit
94
7.16 Safeguarded stop
95
7.17 Locomotion
96
7.18 Shared emergency stop
97
7.19 Reduced speed
98
7.20 Robot computer
99
7.21 Common issues
99
7.22 Light indicators and speakers
100
8. Commissioning
103
8.1 Analysis of the work environment
103
8.2 Risk assessment
105
8.3 Creating and configuring a map
106
8.4 Creating markers and positions
120
8.5 Creating a mission
128
8.6 Creating a footprint
132
8.7 Operating hazard zones
136
8.8 Brake test
138
8.9 Creating user groups and users
138
8.10 Creating dashboards
141

### Page 6

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
6
8.11 Updating MiR250 software
143
8.12 Creating backups
144
8.13 System settings
145
9. Usage
152
9.1 Creating the Prompt user mission
152
9.2 Creating the Try/Catch mission
157
9.3 Creating the Variable footprint mission
163
9.4 Creating the 80 cm doorway mission
166
9.5 Testing a mission
173
10. Applications
175
10.1 Mounting a top module
175
11. Maintenance
177
11.1 Regular weekly checks and maintenance tasks
177
11.2 Regular checks and replacements
178
11.3 Battery maintenance
181
12. Packing for transportation
183
12.1 Original packaging
183
12.2 Packing the robot for transportation
184
12.3 Battery
185
13. Disposal of robot
186
14. Payload specifications
187
14.1 Side view
188
14.2 Front view
190
14.3 Top view
192

### Page 7

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
7
15. Interface specifications
194
15.1 Left side interfaces
194
15.2 Right side interfaces
199
15.3 Connector list
206
16. Error handling
208
16.1 Software errors
208
16.2 Hardware errors
209

### Page 8

1. About this document
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
8
1. About this document
This user guide explains how to set up and start operating your MiR250 and provides
examples of simple missions you can expand to your purposes. This guide also contains
information regarding the external and internal components of MiR250 along with a guide
for proper maintenance of the robot. You will also find information regarding safety and
specifications needed to commission a safe MiR250 robot application.
NOTICE
Save this manual. It contains important safety and operating instructions.
1.1 Where to find more information
At  the MiR website , you can find the following resources under the  Manuals  tab on each
product page:
•   Quick starts  describe how you start operating MiR robots quickly. This document is in
print in the box with the robots. Quick starts are available in multiple languages.
•   User guides  provide all the information you need to operate and maintain MiR robots.
User guides are available in multiple languages.
•   Risk Analysis Guides  include guidelines on how to create a risk assessment of your robot
solution.
•   Commissioning guides  describe how to commission your robot safely and prepare it to
operate in the workplace.
•   Operating guides  describe how to set up and use top modules and accessories, such as
charging stations, hooks, shelf lifts, and pallet lifts.
•   Getting started guides  describe how to set up products that are mainly software-based,
such as MiR Fleet.
•   Reference guides  contain descriptions of all the elements of the robot interface and MiR
Fleet interface. Reference guides are available in multiple languages.
•   REST API references  for MiR robots, MiR hooks, and MiR Fleet.
•   The  MiR network and WiFi guide  specifies the performance requirements of your
network and how you must configure it for MiR robots and MiR Fleet to operate
successfully.

### Page 9

1. About this document
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
9
1.2 Version history
This table shows current and previous versions of this document.
Revision
Release date
Description
HW
1.0
2020-06-26
First edition
1.0
1.1
2020-07-01
Minor corrections throughout manual.
1.0

### Page 10

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
10
2. Product presentation
MiR250 is an autonomous mobile robot that can transport loads up to 250 kg indoors within
production facilities, warehouses, and other industrial locations where access to the public is
restricted.
Users operate MiR250 via a web-based user interface, which is accessed via a browser on a
PC, smartphone, or tablet. Each robot has its own network—see  Connecting to the robot
interface on page 48 . The robot can be set up to run a fixed route, be called on demand, or
perform more complex missions.
The robot interface of MiR250 can be accessed via Google Chrome, Apple Safari, Mozilla
Firefox, and Microsoft Edge browsers.
The robot uses a map of its work area to navigate and can move to any position on the
map—see  Navigation and robot system on page 1 - REF-FAIL . The map can be created or
imported the first time the robot is used. While operating, the robot avoids obstacles, like
people and furniture, that are not mapped.
MiR250 is supplied with a fast swap removable lithium-ion battery.
MiR250 is available both in an ESD approved version, which is black, and a non-ESD
approved version, which is gray.

### Page 11

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
11
Specifications for MiR250 are available on the MiR website.
2.1 Main features of MiR250
The main features of the MiR250 are:
•   Driving in a populated workspace
The robot is designed to operate among people and maneuvers safely and efficiently in
even highly dynamic environments.
•   Overall route planning and local adjustments
The robot navigates autonomously to find the most efficient paths to its destinations. The
robot adjusts the path when it encounters obstacles that are not on the map, like
personnel and vehicles.
•   Efficient transportation of heavy loads
The robot is designed to automate transportation of loads up to 250 kg.
•   Sound and light signals
The robot continuously signals with light and sounds indicating where it will drive and its
current status, for example waiting for a mission, driving to a destination, or destination
reached.
•   User-friendly and flexible
The web-based user interface, accessed from a PC, tablet, or smartphone, gives easy
access to operation and monitoring of the robot and can be programmed without any
prior experience. Different user group levels and tailored dashboards can be set up to suit
different users.
•   Alert for 'lost'
If the robot enters a situation where it is unable to find a path to its destination, it stops,
turns on the yellow-purple running error light, and a custom defined  Try/Catch  action
may be used to alert personnel or take other actions—see  Creating the Try/Catch mission
on page 157 .
•   Automatic deceleration for objects
The built-in sensors ensure that the robot is slowed down when obstacles are detected in
front of it.

### Page 12

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
12
•   Internal map
The robot can either use a floor plan from a CAD drawing, or a map can be created by
manually driving the robot around the entire site in which the robot is going to operate.
When the robot is mapping, the robot’s sensors detect walls, doors, furniture, and other
obstacles, and the robot then creates a map based on these input. After you've finished
mapping, you can add positions and other features in the map editor.
2.2 Top modules
The following top modules are available for MiR250:
•   MiR 250 Shelf Carrier
A top application that allows MiR250 to tow shelves.
To read more about the top modules, go to  the MiR website .

### Page 13

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
13
2.3 External parts
This section presents the parts of MiR250 that are visible on the outside.
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Corner bumper: four pcs, one
on each corner
2
Front cover: opens to front
compartment—see  Internal
parts on page 19
3
Swivel wheel with foot guard:
four pcs, one in each corner
4
3D depth camera: two pcs,
both in the front
5
Nanoscan3 safety laser
scanner: two pcs, in opposite
corners
6
Status light: on all four sides
of the robot—see  Light
indicators and speakers on
page 100
7
Side cover: opens to side
8
Control panel—see  Control

### Page 14

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
14
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
compartment—see  Internal
parts on page 19
panel on page 15
9
Manual brake release
switch—see  Control panel on
the next page
10
Rear cover: opens to rear
compartment—see  Internal
parts on page 19
11
Signal light: eight pcs, two on
each corner—see  Light
indicators and speakers on
page 100
12
Proximity sensor: eight pcs,
two in each corner behind
corner covers—see  (linked
document is not in XML
format) REF-FAIL
13
Top plate
14
Left top compartment:
Access to auxiliary power,
emergency stop, and
Ethernet interfaces. Antenna
RP-SMA connector is
available on the top side of
the hatch—see  Internal parts
on page 19
15
Right top compartment:
Access to Safe I/Os and GPIO
interface. Antenna RP-SMA
connector is available on the
top side of the hatch—see
Internal parts on page 19
Identification label
MiR250 is delivered with an identification label mounted to the product. The identification
label identifies the product, the product serial number, and the hardware version of the
product.
The identification label of MiR250 is located behind the rear cover next to the battery.

### Page 15

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
15
Figure 2.1. Example of a MiR250 identification label.
Nameplate
Every MiR application is delivered with a nameplate that must be mounted to the robot. The
nameplate of MiR250 identifies the application model and serial number and includes the
CE mark, the technical specifications, and the address of Mobile Industrial Robots. The
nameplate identifies the complete MiR application, for example, a robot with a top module.
It is the responsibility of the commissioner to place the nameplate on the application—see
Mounting the nameplate on page 55 .
Figure 2.2. Example of a MiR250 nameplate.
Control panel
MiR250 has a control panel in the rear-left corner of the robot.
The Operating mode key
The Operating mode key lets you switch between operating modes.

### Page 16

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
16
•   Left position: Autonomous mode
Puts the robot in Autonomous mode.
•   Middle position: Locked
Locks the robot. The robot blocks the wheels; you cannot start a mission or drive the robot
manually.
•   Right position: Manual mode
Puts the robot in Manual mode.
For more information on operating modes—see  Operating modes on page 19 .

### Page 17

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
17
The control panel buttons
The following table identifies the three buttons on the control panel.
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Manual stop
2
Resume
3
Power
Manual stop
Pressing this button stops the robot. After pressing this button, you must press the Resume
button to let the robot continue operating.
Color indication:
•   Red: It is possible to engage the Manual stop.
Resume
Pressing this button:
•   Clears the Emergency stop state.
•   Lets the robot continue operating after the Manual stop button was pressed or after the
operating mode change.
•   Lets the robot start operating after powering up.

### Page 18

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
18
Color indication:
•   Blinking blue: The robot is waiting for a user action (clear the Emergency stop state,
acknowledge the change of operating mode).
Power
Pressing this button for three seconds turns the robot on or shuts it off.
Color indication:
•   Blue: The robot is off.
•   Blinking green: The robot is starting up.
•   Green: Normal operation.
•   Blinking red: The battery level is too low to start without additional charging or the robot
is shutting down.
Manual brake release switch
The manual brake release switch is located below the control panel and releases the
mechanical brakes on MiR250. You release the brakes by turning the Manual brake release
switch clockwise.
The mechanical brakes require electrical power to be released, so if the robot is without
power, the mechanical brakes cannot be released.

### Page 19

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
19
When driving in Autonomous mode, the robot engages and releases the mechanical brakes
automatically.
The robot cannot operate while the mechanical brakes are released.
Operating modes
MiR250 has two operating modes: Manual mode and Autonomous mode.
Manual mode
In this mode, you can drive the robot manually using the joystick in the robot interface. Only
one person can control the robot manually at a time. To ensure that nobody else takes
control of the robot, the robot issues a token to the device on which you activate the Manual
mode.
For information about activating this mode—see  Driving the robot in Manual mode on
page 50 .
Autonomous mode
In this mode, the robot executes the programmed missions. After switching the key to this
mode, you can remove the key, and the robot will continue driving autonomously. In
autonomous mode, the joystick is disabled in the robot interface.
2.4 Internal parts
Most internal parts of MiR250 are accessed through covers that open to different
compartments:
•   Front compartment
•   Rear compartment
•   Side compartments
•   Top compartments

### Page 20

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
20
CAUTION
Removing covers from the robot exposes parts connected to the power supply,
risking damage to the robot from a short circuit and electrical shock to
personnel.
•   Disconnect the battery by turning the Battery disconnect switch.
Front compartment
The front compartment holds several electronic components, such as the robot computer
and the carrier board.
To open the front compartment, see  Accessing the internal parts on page 27 .
Front compartment components
The front compartment contains the following components:
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Loudspeaker
2
Carrier board with motor
controller controlling the left-

### Page 21

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
21
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
side drivetrain
3
Carrier board with motor
controller controlling the right-
side drivetrain
4
Robot computer
5
Charging pads under robot and
broom for keeping dirt away
from the charging pads
Rear compartment
The rear compartment holds the robot’s battery, battery disconnect switch, power board,
and safety PLC. The battery and Battery disconnect switch can be accessed without the use
of tools. The other components in the rear compartment are only accessible via use of tools.
To open the rear compartment, see  Accessing the internal parts on page 27 :
NOTICE
The unique nameplate of your robot is to be placed on the rear compartment
cover—see  Mounting the nameplate on page 55  .Make sure you do not swap
the cover with covers from other robots.
Rear compartment components
The rear compartment contains the following main components:

### Page 22

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
22
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Battery disconnect lever
2
Battery connector
3
Battery
4
Cable charging interface
5
Power board for motor
controller, robot computer, and
safety PLC
6
Safety PLC

### Page 23

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
23
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Connectors for proximity
sensors
2
Battery disconnect switch,
shown in Off position
3
Connector for status light
band
4
Brake release switch, shown
in On position. When turned
off, the brakes are released,
and the robot can be pushed
manually
5
Charging connection
interface, for external
charger
6
Battery with connector, main
power to the robot
7
Connection interface for MiR
Controller
Side compartments
The side compartments contain the bogies, drive wheels, and safety contactors.
To open a side cover, see  Accessing the internal parts on page 27

### Page 24

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
24
Side compartment components
The left side compartment contains the following components:
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Safe Stop 1 contactor
2
Safe Torque Off (STO) contactor
3
Bogie and drivetrain consisting of
motor, gearbox, encoder, brake,
drive wheel, and assembly parts
4
Safe Torque Off (STO) contactor
The right side compartment contains the following components:

### Page 25

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
25
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Router
2
Safe Stop 1 contactor
3
Bogie and drivetrain consisting of
motor, gearbox, encoder, brake,
drive wheel, and assembly parts
Top compartments
The two top compartments contain electrical interfaces that can be connected to top
modules.
To open a top compartment, see  Accessing the internal parts on page 27 .

### Page 26

2. Product presentation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
26
Top compartment components
The top compartments contain the following electrical interfaces for top modules. For
detailed information, see  Interface specifications on page 194 .
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Emergency stop
2
Auxiliary power connector
3
Ethernet
4
General purpose I/Os
5
Auxiliary safety functions I/Os
For more information on the top compartment interfaces, see  Interface specifications on
page 194 .

### Page 27

3. Accessing the internal parts
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
27
3. Accessing the internal parts
Most internal parts of MiR250 are accessed through covers that open to different
compartments:
•   Front compartment
•   Rear compartment
•   Side compartments
•   Top compartments
CAUTION
Removing covers from the robot exposes parts connected to the power supply,
risking damage to the robot from a short circuit and electrical shock to
personnel.
•   Disconnect the battery by turning the Battery disconnect switch.
3.1 Front compartment
Follow these steps to open the front compartment:
1.   Unscrew the two screws holding the front cover with a Tx30 screwdriver.

### Page 28

3. Accessing the internal parts
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
28
2.   Pull the front cover off of the robot.
3.2 Rear compartment
Follow these steps to open the rear compartment:
1.   Push the two white buttons at the same time.

### Page 29

3. Accessing the internal parts
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
29
2.   Loosen the cover by wiggling both sides.
3.   Pull off the cover.

### Page 30

3. Accessing the internal parts
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
30
3.3 Side compartments
Follow these steps to open a side cover:
1.   Turn the two screws counterclockwise with a Tx30 screwdriver.
2.   Pull the cover off.
3.4 Top compartments
To open a top compartment, unscrew the four screws with a Tx8 screwdriver, and lift off the
black plastic top cover.
NOTICE
With the antenna cables mounted, the plastic top covers can be lifted 5 cm. If
you need to remove a cover completely, the antenna cable needs to be
detached from the cover first. When reattaching the covers, make sure that
the antenna cables are not damaged.

### Page 31

3. Accessing the internal parts
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
31
Figure 3.1. The top compartments of MiR250.

### Page 32

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
32
4. Safety
Read the information in this section before powering up and operating MiR250.
Pay particular attention to the safety instructions and warnings.
NOTICE
Mobile Industrial Robots disclaims any and all liability if MiR250 or its
accessories are damaged, changed, or modified in any way. Mobile Industrial
Robots cannot be held responsible for any damages caused to MiR250,
accessories, or any other equipment due to programming errors or
malfunctioning of MiR250.
4.1 Safety message types
This document uses the following safety message types.
WARNING
Indicates a potentially hazardous situation that could result in death or serious
injury. Carefully read the message that follows to prevent death or serious
injury.
CAUTION
Indicates a potentially hazardous situation that could result in minor or
moderate injury. Alerts against unsafe practices. Carefully read the message
that follows to prevent minor or moderate injury.
NOTICE
Indicates important information, including situations that can result in damage
to equipment or property.

### Page 33

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
33
4.2 General safety precautions
This section contains general safety precautions.
WARNING
Using a charging device different from the one supplied by the manufacturer
can cause a fire and thereby burn injuries to nearby personnel and damage to
the robot and equipment.
•   Only use the original charger.
WARNING
MiR250 may drive over the feet of personnel, causing injury.
•   All personnel must be informed of the side protective fields of MiR250 and
be instructed to wear safety shoes near an operating robot.
WARNING
Contact with live electrical parts can cause electric shock.
•   Do not touch any internal components of MiR250 while it is powered.
WARNING
MiR250 may drive into a ladder, scaffold, or similar equipment that has a
person standing on it. Personnel risk fall injuries and equipment may be
damaged.
•   Don't place ladders, scaffolds, or similar equipment in the robot's work
environment.

### Page 34

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
34
WARNING
The robot may drive down staircases or holes in the floor and cause serious
injury to personnel and damage to the robot and to equipment.
•   Mark descending staircases and holes as forbidden zones on maps.
•   Keep the maps up to date.
•   Inform personnel that the robot cannot detect descending staircases and
holes in the floor in time to stop.

### Page 35

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
35
WARNING
Lithium battery packs may get hot, explode, or ignite and cause serious injury
if they are misused electrically or mechanically.
Observe the following precautions when handling and using lithium-ion
batteries:
•   Do not short-circuit, recharge, or connect with false polarity.
•   Do not expose to temperatures beyond the specified temperature range or
incinerate the battery.
•   Do not crush, puncture, or disassemble the battery. The battery contains
safety and protection devices, which, if damaged, may cause the battery to
generate heat, explode, or ignite.
•   Do not allow the battery to get wet.
•   In the event the battery leaks and the fluid gets into one’s eye, do not rub
the eye. Rinse well with water and immediately seek medical care. If left
untreated, the battery fluid could cause damage to the eye.
•   Use only the original charger (cable charger or charging station) and
always follow the instructions from the battery manufacturer.
•   Do not touch damaged batteries with bare hands. Only personnel using
suitable Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and tools should handle
damaged batteries.
•   Isolate the battery and keep clear if the following conditions are observed:
•   The battery exhibits abnormally high temperatures.
•   The battery emits abnormal odors.
•   The battery changes colors.
•   The battery case is deformed or otherwise differs from the normal
electrical or mechanical condition.
•   Modifications or manipulations of the battery may lead to considerable
safety risks and are therefore prohibited.
•   Do not use the battery on anything other than MiR250.

### Page 36

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
36
CAUTION
Robot malfunctions can cause an electrical fire, causing damage and injury to
equipment and personnel.
•   Personnel operating near the robot must be informed on how to use an ABC
fire extinguisher to put out an electrical fire should the robot malfunction
and catch on fire.
CAUTION
Risk of trapping or injury to personnel if robots malfunction or if personnel
enter operating hazard zones.
•   Personnel operating near the robot must be informed on how to engage the
robot's Emergency stop function in emergency situations.
4.3 Intended use
MiR250 is intended to be commissioned and used in indoor industrial environments where
access for the public is restricted. For details about the environmental conditions in which
MiR250 should operate, see specifications for MiR250 on our website.
MiR250 is intended to be commissioned according to the guidelines in  Commissioning on
page 103 . This is a prerequisite for safe usage of MiR250.
MiR250 is equipped with safety-related features that are purposely designed for
collaborative operation where the robot operates without a safety enclosure or together
with people.
MiR250 is intended to be used with top modules supported by MiR or custom modules that:
•   Do not have any moving parts.
•   Do not extend the footprint of the robot.
•   Operate within the environmental conditions required for MiR250.
•   Are within the requirements in  Payload specifications on page 187 .
If used with custom modules, all obligations of a manufacturer apply to the individual who
performs the modifications, in accordance with the machinery directive.

### Page 37

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
37
MiR250 is designed for and all risks are considered when used with one of the following
types of top modules:
•   MiR Shelf Carrier 250 to transport wheeled carts.
MiR250 can be used as a partly complete machine as defined in the EU machinery directive,
with top modules that do not meet the above limitations. Those who design, manufacture, or
commission a system that does not meet the limitations of use of MiR250 carry the
obligations of a manufacturer and shall ensure a safe design according to EN ISO 12100.
Guidelines outlined in this manual are not sufficient. The following list gives examples of
applications which are not intended use of MiR250:
•   Top modules (including total payload) that increase the footprint of MiR250
•   Conveyers (powered and non-powered)
•   Industrial robot arm
•   Customized load transfer station
NOTICE
A safe machine does not guarantee a safe system. Follow the guidelines in
Commissioning on page 103  to ensure a safe system.
4.4 Users
MiR250 is only intended to be used by personnel that have received training in their
required tasks.
There are three types of intended users for MiR250: commissioners, operators, and direct
users.
Commissioners
Commissioners have thorough knowledge of all aspects of commissioning, safety, use, and
maintenance of MiR250 and have the following main tasks:
•   Commissioning of the product. This includes creating maps and restricting the user
interface for other users and making brake tests with a full payload.
•   Conducting the risk assessment.

### Page 38

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
38
•   Determining the payload limit, weight distribution, safe fastening methods, safe loading
and unloading of loads on MiR250, and ergonomic loading and unloading methods if
relevant.
•   Ensuring the safety of nearby personnel when the robot is accelerating, braking, and
maneuvering.
•   Marking operating hazard zones.
Operators
Operators have thorough knowledge of MiR250 and of the safety precautions presented in
this User guide. Operators have the following main tasks:
•   Servicing and maintaining MiR250.
•   Creating and changing missions and map features in the robot interface.
Direct users
Direct users are familiar with the safety precautions in this user guide and have the
following main tasks:
•   Assigning missions to MiR250.
•   Fastening loads to MiR250 securely.
•   Loading and unloading from a paused robot.
All other persons in the vicinity of MiR250 are considered indirect users and must know how
to act when they are close to the robot. For example, they must be aware that visibly
marked operating hazard zones must be respected.
4.5 Foreseeable misuse
Any use of MiR250 deviating from the intended use is deemed as misuse. This includes, but
is not limited to:
•   Using MiR250 to transport people
•   Using MiR250 on steep surface grades, such as ramps
•   Using the wrong SICK configuration
•   Driving MiR250 on cross slopes
•   Exceeding the total payload
•   Using the Emergency stop button for anything other than emergency stops
•   Positioning or fastening loads incorrectly according to the specifications

### Page 39

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
39
•   Using MiR250 in medical and life critical applications
•   Operating MiR250 outside the permissible operating parameters and environmental
specifications
•   Using MiR250 in potentially explosive environments
•   Using MiR250 outdoors
•   Using MiR250 in hygiene zones
4.6 Warning label
MiR250 is supplied with a warning label that specifies that it is strictly prohibited to ride on
the robot.
The label must be placed on the robot or top module so that it is clearly visible.
4.7 Residual risks
Mobile Industrial Robots has identified the following potential hazards that commissioners
must inform personnel about and take all precautions to avoid:
•   You risk being run over, drawn in, trapped, or struck if you stand in the path of MiR250 or
walk towards MiR250 or its intended path while it is in motion.
•   You risk being run over, drawn in, trapped, or struck if you stand in the path of the robot
or walk towards it while it is driving in reverse. It will only drive in reverse when
undocking from a marker such as a charging station or load transfer station.
•   You risk being crushed or trapped if you touch MiR250 while it is in motion.
•   You risk being crushed, run over, drawn in, or trapped if the robot places a load outside a
designated drop-off area due to faulty localization.
•   You risk losing control of MiR250 if it is accessed by unauthorized users. Consider
increasing the IT security of your product—see  IT security on page 66 .

### Page 40

4. Safety
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
40
NOTICE
Other significant hazards may be present in a specific robot installation and
must be identified during commissioning.

### Page 41

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
41
5. Getting started
This section describes how to get started with MiR250.
NOTICE
Read  Safety on page 32  before powering up MiR250.
5.1 In the box
This section describes the contents of the MiR250 box.

### Page 42

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
42
The box contains:
•   The MiR250 robot
•   A MiR250 document folder containing a USB flash drive and the following printed
documents:
•   MiR250 Quick Start
•   The CE declaration of Conformity for your application
•   Getting the robot online
•   Passwords
•   The unique nameplate for your application
•   The USB flash drive in the document folder has the following content:
•   This user guide
•   MiR250 Quick Start
•   MiR Network and WiFi guide
•   MiR Robot Reference guide
•   MiR Robot REST API Reference
•   Getting the robot online
•   CE declaration of Conformity
5.2 Unpacking MiR250
This section describes how to unpack MiR250.
Keep the original packaging for future transportation of the robot.
The robot is shown with a MiR Shelf Carrier 250 top module.
1.   Place the box with the robot so that there is three meters of free space at the front or the
back of the box. This is necessary as the robot drives out of the box on a ramp.

### Page 43

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
43
2.   Cut the protective straps surrounding the box.
3.   Remove the lid from the box.
4.   Take the folder with the printed documents and the USB flash drive out of the box.

### Page 44

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
44
5.   Remove the walls of the box and the protective foam blocks.
6.   Place the lid of the box so that you can use it as a ramp. Align the lid so that it is flush
with the base of the box.

### Page 45

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
45
5.3 Connecting the battery and powering up
You must connect the battery before powering up the robot.
Connecting the battery
To connect the battery to the robot, you need to open the rear compartment—see  Accessing
the internal parts on page 27 .
Follow these steps to connect the battery to the robot:
1.   Turn the battery lever lock clockwise to unlock the battery lever.
2.   Pull up the lever to connect the battery connector to the battery. Then turn the battery
lever lock counterclockwise to secure the battery lever.

### Page 46

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
46
3.   Reattach the rear cover by inserting it into the two attachment sockets. When attaching
the cover to the robot, press the two white buttons, and don't tilt the cover.
4.   Click the cover in place.
Powering up
Follow these steps to power up the robot:

### Page 47

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
47
1.   Press the Power button for three seconds to turn on the robot.
The status lights waver yellow, and the robot starts the software initialization process.
When the initialization process ends, the robot goes into Protective stop.

### Page 48

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
48
2.   Press the Resume button to clear the Protective stop. The robot is now ready for
operation.
5.4 Connecting to the robot interface
When the robot is turned on, it enables the connection to its WiFi access point. The name of
the access point appears in the list of available connections on your PC, tablet, or phone.
NOTICE
The username and password for the robot’s WiFi access point and for
accessing the web interface are in the MiR username and passwords
document. The document is in the box with the robot.
Follow these steps to connect to the robot interface:
1.   Using your pc, tablet, or phone, connect to the WiFi access point of the robot. The access
point name has the following format: MiR20XXXXXXX

### Page 49

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
49
2.   In a browser, go to the address  mir.com  and sign in.
3.   Switch to Manual mode, and drive the robot down the ramp—see  Driving the robot in
Manual mode on the next page .

### Page 50

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
50
5.5 Driving the robot in Manual mode
CAUTION
When driving the robot in manual mode, it is possible to mute the personnel
detection means and drive the robot into Forbidden zones and Unpreferred
zones in the map. This means that the robot will only stop when very close to
an obstacle and will not respond to zones on the map. This can result in injury
to personnel or damage to equipment if the robot is not driven carefully.
•   Drive carefully to avoid collisions with any personnel or objects when
driving the robot in Manual mode.
•   Avoid driving the robot manually without a clear visual of the robot.
NOTICE
Place your foot in front of the ramp while the robot drives on it to keep the
ramp from slipping.
To drive the robot in Manual mode, follow these steps:
1.   On the robot, turn the Operating mode key into Manual mode (turn it to the right).
2.   In the robot interface, select  Manual control . The Resume button on the robot starts
blinking.

### Page 51

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
51
3.   In the robot interface, select the joystick icon. The joystick control appears.
4.   On the robot, press the Resume button. The status lights turn blue, indicating that the
robot is in Manual mode.

### Page 52

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
52
5.   Drive the robot off the ramp using the joystick.
5.6 Moving the robot by hand
You should generally avoid moving the robot by hand, but if for example the robot gets stuck
near an obstacle and cannot be moved by manual control, it is possible to do so.
Before moving the robot by hand, make sure the mechanical brakes are released.
To release the brakes, the robot must be turned on—see  Connecting the
battery and powering up on page 45 .

### Page 53

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
53
Release the brakes by turning the Manual brake release switch located below the control
panel clockwise.
To move the robot by hand either push or pull it.
When pushing the robot, only push on the top plate.
When pulling the robot, use either the front pull handle or the rear pull handle.

### Page 54

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
54
NOTICE
When handling the robot, do not push or pull the robot sideways, and do not
use the covers for pushing or pulling. Only use the designated pull handles or
the top plate.
5.7 Checking the hardware status
To check that all hardware components work as intended, follow these steps:
1.   Sign in to the robot interface—see  Connecting to the robot interface on page 48 .
2.   Go to  Monitoring  >  Hardware health .

### Page 55

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
55
3.   Check that all elements on the page have the OK status and that they have green dots on
the left.
For more information, see  Hardware health  in  MiR Robot Interface 2.0 Reference Guide  on
the MiR website.
5.8 Mounting the nameplate
Before using MiR250, you must mount its unique nameplate to it. The nameplate contains
information specific to your MiR application—see  Nameplate on page 15 .
NOTICE
The nameplate must be mounted as described in the following steps. If
mounted incorrectly, the CE mark is invalid.
The following steps describe how to mount the nameplate correctly:

### Page 56

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
56
1.   Locate the rear cover—see  External parts on page 13 .
2.   Clean the area marked in the image below with a degreasing agent.
3.   Mount the nameplate on the cleaned area.

### Page 57

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
57
5.9 Shutting down the robot
To shut down MiR250:
1.   Ensure that the robot is not moving or executing an action.
2.   Press the Power button for three seconds.
3.   The robot starts the shutdown process. The status lights waver yellow, and the Power
button blinks red.

### Page 58

5. Getting started
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
58
4.   When the robot finishes the shutdown process, the status and the signal lights go off, and
the Power button turns blue.
When you shut down the robot for transportation, service, or repair, the battery must be
disconnected—see  Enabling fast swap and swapping out the lithium-ion battery on page 60 .

### Page 59

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
59
6. Battery and charging
The robot is powered by a fast swap lithium-ion battery that can be charged both inside and
outside of the robot.
6.1 Charging the robot
This section describes how to charge MiR250 using a MiR cable charger.
A MiR cable charger is not part of the MiR250 standard delivery. Contact your
distributor for more information.
The robot is delivered fully charged.
The rear compartment holds the robot’s battery. To access the rear compartment, see
Accessing the internal parts on page 27 .
To charge MiR250 using the cable charger, connect the cable charger to the charging
interface on the robot in the bottom-right corner.

### Page 60

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
60
If the robot has been inactive for more than a week or if its battery
percentage has been below 5% for more than four hours, the battery goes into
Power save mode, which disables the power to the robot.
To disable Power save mode, disconnect and connect the battery connector, or
connect a MiR cable charger to the robot.
For information about the charging time, see specifications on the MiR website.
6.2 Enabling fast swap and swapping out the
lithium-ion battery
MiR250 is supplied with a fast swap removable lithium-ion battery. The battery can be
charged both inside and outside of the robot with a MiR cable charger.
The robot is delivered with one lithium-ion battery. Contact your distributor if
you need more batteries.
The rear compartment holds the robot’s battery. To access the rear compartment, see
Accessing the internal parts on page 27 .
Enabling fast swap
If you wish to enable the fast swap-option on the robot, you must first unscrew the plate
holding these levers from the robot and then the levers themselves and fasten them to the
levers controlling the connector. You only need to do this once.
The levers holding the battery in place are fastened with screws from the
factory to ensure that the battery stays disconnected during transportation.
Follow these steps to enable the fast swap-option on the robot:

### Page 61

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
61
1.   Unscrew this screw with a Tx20 screwdriver.
2.   Unscrew this screw with a 10 mm hex key.

### Page 62

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
62
3.   Fasten the two levers to the lever controlling the connector.
Swapping out the lithium-ion battery
Follow these steps to swap out the battery:

### Page 63

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
63
1.   Turn the battery lever lock clockwise to unlock the battery lever.
2.   Press down on the battery lever.

### Page 64

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
64
3.   Pull out the battery.
You can now replace the battery.
4.   Do the steps in reverse order when putting in the battery.
6.3 Battery storage and disposal
Battery storage
The battery should be stored in an area at room temperature—see specifications on the MiR
website. Temperatures below or above room temperature will shorten the service life of the
battery.
The battery should be stored in an area with a non-condensing relative air humidity within
specifications to preserve the service life of the battery—see specifications on the MiR
website.
The battery should not be exposed to nor submerged in any liquid as this may damage the
battery.
Charge the battery before storage to preserve the service life of the battery. A 30% charged
battery can be stored for seven months.
To preserve the battery, disconnect the battery from the robot before storing the robot.

### Page 65

6. Battery and charging
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
65
Battery disposal
Return unserviceable batteries to relevant facilities in accordance with local statutory
regulations.
A crossed-out wheeled bin indicates that the product needs to be disposed separately and
not as municipal waste.
You are legally obliged to return used batteries and rechargeable batteries. Disposing used
batteries in the household waste is prohibited. Batteries/Rechargeable batteries containing
hazardous substances are marked with the crossed-out wheeled bin. The symbol indicates
that it is forbidden to dispose the product via the domestic refuse. The chemical symbols for
the respective hazardous substances are Cd= Cadmium, Hg = Mercury, Pb = Lead.
Figure 6.1. Battery disposal symbols.

### Page 66

7. IT security
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
66
7. IT security
IT security is a set of precautions you can take to prevent unauthorized personnel from
accessing MiR250. This section describes the main IT-security related risks and how to
minimize them when commissioning MiR250.
MiR250 communicates all data over the network that it is connected to. It is the
responsibility of the commissioner to ensure that it is connected to a secure network. MiR
recommends creating an IT-security risk assessment before commissioning the robot.
7.1 Managing users and passwords
Managing your users and passwords is the main way you can control access to MiR250.
There are three default users with predefined passwords for you to start using. These are
described in the  MiR Robot Interface Reference guide  along with instructions to create new
users, user groups, and passwords. MiR advises you to:
•   Change the default password for all predefined users if you choose to continue to use
them. Make sure to choose a strong password since MiR250 does not enforce any
password rules nor expire the password.
•   Create new user groups if more levels of access are necessary.
•   Create dedicated user accounts under the relevant user group for each person accessing
MiR250, and ensure that the users change the password on their first sign-in. It is not
recommended to have several users share the same account.
•   Only enable users with a minimum level of access to use a pin code to sign in. Users with
a higher level of access are recommended to use a strong password to sign in instead.
7.2 Software security patches
To improve the security of MiR250, MiR supplies security patches to the operating system in
new MiR software update files. When you install a security patch, it takes approximately 10-
15 minutes longer to update a MiR product.
Understanding MiR software versions
MiR uses the  Major.Minor.Patch.Hot fix  format to version software. For example, 2.8.1.1
means that the software is based on the second major release, the eighth minor release of
the major version, the first patch release of the minor version, and in this example a single

### Page 67

7. IT security
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
67
hot fix is included too.
•   Major releases  include the most significant changes that affect the entire robot software.
•   Minor releases  often include new features and smaller changes that only affect parts of
the software.
•   Patch releases  focus on fixing small issues in the software and introducing quality
improvements.
•   Hot fix releases  are only created when a patch release has introduced a critical issue that
needs to be fixed immediately.
Security patch policy
MiR applies the following policy when supplying security patches:
•   New security patches are distributed per every minor release.
•   All patch releases under a minor release include the security patches also. In other words,
if you chose not to install the first software version in a minor release, such as version
2.9.0, the security patches will still be installed when you update to 2.9.1 or higher.
•   Whenever there is a new minor release with new security patches, the security patches
are also made available in a separate file. In this way, you are not required to update to
the latest software to apply the security patches. You can use any lower software version
and just install the security patches to that software instead.

### Page 68

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
68
7. Navigation and control system
The navigation and control system is responsible for driving the robot to a goal position
while avoiding obstacles. This section describes the processes and components involved in
the robot's navigation and control system.
7.3 System overview
The purpose of the navigation and control system is to guide the robot from one position on
a map to another position. The user provides the map and chooses the goal position the
robot must move to. The diagram in  Figure 7.1  describes the processes in the navigation and
control system. The main processes involved in the navigation system are:
•   Global planner
The navigation process starts with the global planner determining the best path for the
robot to get from its current position to the goal position. It plans the route to avoid walls
and structures on the map.
•   Local planner
While the robot is driving along the path made by the global planner, the local planner
continuously guides the robot around detected obstacles that are not included on the
map.
•   Obstacle detection
The safety laser scanners, 3D cameras, and proximity sensors are used to detect obstacles
in the work environment. These are used to prevent the robot from colliding with
obstacles.
•   Localization
This process determines the robot's current position on the map based on input from the
motor encoders, inertial measurement unit (IMU), and safety laser scanners.
•   Motor controller, motors, and brakes
The motor controller determines how much power each motor must receives to drive the
robot along the intended path safely. Once the robot reaches the goal position, the brakes
are engaged to stop the robot.
Each part of the process is described in greater detail in the following sections.

### Page 69

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
69
Figure 7.1. Flow chart of the navigation and robot system. The user provides the necessary input for the robot
to generate a path to the goal position. The robot executes the steps in the navigation loop until it reaches the
goal position and stops by engaging the brakes.

### Page 70

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
70
7.4 User input
To enable the robot to navigate autonomously, you must provide the following:
•   A map of the area, either from a .png file or created with the robot using the mapping
function—see  Creating and configuring a map on page 106 .
•   A goal destination on that map—see  Creating markers and positions on page 120 .
•   The current position of the robot on the map. This usually only needs to be provided when
a new map is activated.
Figure 7.2. On the map, the current position of the robot is identified by the robot icon
, and the goal
destination is the robot position
. The robot computer now determines a path from the current position to the
goal position.
Once the robot computer has a map with the robot's current position and a goal destination,
it begins planning a route between the two positions on the map using the global planner.
7.5 Global planner
The global planner is an algorithm in the robot computer that generates a path to the goal
position. This path is known as the global path.

### Page 71

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
71
Figure 7.3. The global path is shown with the blue dotted line that leads from the start to the goal position.
The global path is created only at the start of a move action or if the robot has failed to
reach the goal position and needs to create a new path. The generated path only avoids the
obstacles the robot detected when the path was made and the obstacles marked on the map.
The global path can be seen in the robot interface as a dotted line from the robot's start
position to goal position.
Figure 7.4. The dotted line from the start position of the robot to the goal position is the global path generated
by the robot computer.

### Page 72

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
72
7.6 Local planner
The local planner is used continuously while the robot is driving to guide it around obstacles
while still following the global path.
Figure 7.5. The global path is indicated with the dotted blue line. The local path is indicated with the blue arrow,
showing the robot driving around a dynamic obstacle.
Whereas the global planner creates a single path from start to finish, the local planner
continues to create new paths that adapt to the current position of the robot and the
obstacles around it. The local planner only considers the area that is immediately
surrounding the robot, using input from the robot sensors to avoid obstacles.

### Page 73

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
73
Figure 7.6. The local planner usually follows the global planner, but as soon as an obstacle gets in the way, the
local planner determines which immediate path will get the robot around the obstacle. In this case, it will likely
choose the path indicated with a green arrow.
Once the local path is determined, the robot computer derives a desired velocity, and
acceleration that it sends to the motor controller—see  Motor controller and motors on
page 81 .
7.7 Obstacle detection
The robot continuously detects obstacles while driving. This enables it to use the local
planner to drive around the obstacles and to determine its current position on the map.
There are three sensors that are responsible for detecting obstacles:
•   The safety laser scanners
•   The 3D cameras
•   The proximity sensors
The following illustrations show how the robot sees the surrounding environment and how it
is portrayed in the robot interface.

### Page 74

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
74
What a human sees
What the laser scanners
see
What the 3D cameras see
A chair placed in the
corner of a room is
detectable by the robot.
In the robot interface, the
red lines on a map are
obstacles detected by the
laser scanners, and the
purple clouds are an
aggregate of the 3D
camera and laser scanner
data. The scanners only
detect the four legs of the
chair.
The 3D cameras detect
more details of the chair
when the robot gets close
enough to it. This view
cannot be seen in the
robot interface.
Safety laser scanners
Two safety laser scanners, diagonally placed on front and rear corners of the robot, scan
their surroundings. Each safety laser scanner has a 270° field of view, overlapping and thus
providing a full 360° visual protection around the robot.
When in motion, the safety laser scanners continuously scan the surroundings to detect
objects.

### Page 75

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
75
Figure 7.7. The two safety laser scanners together provide a full 360° view around the robot.
The laser scanners have the following limitations:
•   They can detect only objects that intersect a plane at 200 mm height from the floor.
•   They do not detect transparent obstacles well.
•   The scanner data can be inaccurate when detecting reflective obstacles.
If you are using the robot in an area with walls made of glass or reflective
material, mark the wall as a forbidden zone on the map and not as a wall—
see  Creating and configuring a map on page 106 .
3D cameras
Two 3D cameras positioned on the front of the robot detect objects in front of the robot. The
3D cameras detect objects:
•   Vertically up to 1800 mm at a distance of 1200 mm in front of the robot.
•   Horizontally in an angle of 114° and 250 mm to the first view of ground.
The 3D cameras are only used for navigation. They are not part of the robot's safety system.

### Page 76

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
76
The camera readouts are used as 3D point cloud data. They are not recording
recognizable objects or people.
The following illustration shows the field of view of the cameras.
Figure 7.8. The two 3D cameras can see objects up to 1800 mm above floor height at a distance of 1200 mm in
front of the robot and have a horizontal field of view of 114°.
The 3D cameras have the following limitations:

### Page 77

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
77
•   They can only detect objects in front of the robot, unlike the full 360° view of the laser
scanners.
•   They do not detect transparent or reflective obstacles well.
•   They do not detect holes or decending stairways.
•   The cameras are not reliable at determining depth when viewing structures with
repetitive patterns.
Proximity sensors
Proximity sensors placed in all four corners of the robot detect objects close to the floor that
cannot be detected by the safety laser scanners.
Using infrared light, the proximity sensors point downwards and make sure that the robot
does not run into low objects, such as pallets and forklift forks.
Because of the proximity sensor's limited range, the data from them is only useful when the
robot is standing still or moving at reduced speeds.
Figure 7.9. The proximity sensors in the corners of the robot detect objects below the safety laser scanners
plane of view.
The proximity sensors have the following limitations:
•   They do not have a long range and are only used to detect obstacles missed by the laser
scanners and cameras.
•   When the robot is driving fast, obstacles detected by the proximity sensors are too close
for the robot to stop or avoid them.

### Page 78

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
78
7.8 Localization
The goal of the localization process is for the robot to determine where it is currently
located on its map. The robot has three inputs for determining where it is:
•   The initial position of the robot. This is used as a reference point for the methods used to
determine the robot position.
•   The IMU and encoder data. This is used to determine how far and fast the robot has
traveled from the initial position.
•   The laser scanner data. This is used to determine the likely positions of the robot by
comparing the data with nearby walls on the map.
This data is used by a particle filter to determine the most likely position of the robot on the
map.
IMU and motor encoders
Both the data from the IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) and motor encoders is used to
derive where and how fast the robot has traveled over time from its initial position. The
combination of both sets of data makes the derived position more accurate.
If the drive wheels are worn down significantly or the robot is running with an
incorrect gear ratio, the robot will miscalculate how far it has traveled based
on the encoder data.
Laser scanners and particle filtering
The robot computer compares the input from the laser scanners with the walls on the map
to try to find the best match. This is done using a particle filter algorithm. The robot
computer only compares with the area where it expects the robot to be based on the
encoder and IMU data. This means it is important that the initial position of the robot is
correct.

### Page 79

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
79
Failed localization
Successful localization
Figure 7.10. In a failed localization, the robot cannot determine a position where the red lines (laser scanner
data) align with the black lines on the map. When the robot can localize itself, it determines a cluster of likely
positions, indicated in the images above as blue dots.
To make sure the robot can localize itself well using particle filtering, consider the following
when creating a map:
•   There must be unique and distinguishable static landmarks on the map that are easily
recognizable. A landmark is a permanent structure that the robot can use to orient itself,
such as corners, doorways, columns, and shelves.

### Page 80

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
80
No distinguishable landmarks
Many distinguishing landmarks
•   The robot must be able to detect the static landmarks that are marked on the map to be
able to approximate its current position.
Cannot detect any landmarks
Can detect enough landmakrs

### Page 81

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
81
•   The robot does not compare the laser scanner data with the entire map, but only around
the area that it expects to be close to based on the IMU and encoder data and its initial
position. This is why it is important that the initial position you place the robot at on the
map is accurate.
•   The robot can drive for a short distance without being correctly localized. As it drives, the
estimated positions should converge to a small area, indicating the robot has determined
an accurate estimate. If this does not occur within a set time limit, the robot reports a
localization error.
7.9 Motor controller and motors
The robot keeps adjusting how much power is sent to each motor based on sensory
input. This means the robot can correct its speed when going up slopes or when carrying a
heavier payload, and it can change its driving direction to avoid moving obstacles.
7.10 Brakes
Once the approximated position of the robot determined from localization is the same as the
goal position calculated by the global planner, the robot stops by using the dynamic brake
function.
Figure 7.11. The robot has reached the goal position and stops by engaging the brakes.
The dynamic brake function stops the robot by short circuiting the power that was used to
rotate the motor. When this happens, the power that was used to drive the robot forward is
now reversed to stop the rotation of the drive wheels

### Page 82

7. Navigation and control system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
82
Once the robot has stopped, the mechanical brakes are enabled. These brakes are used to
keep the robot in place once it has stopped. You can compare it with the parking brake or
hand brake in a car.
The mechanical brakes are only used to stop the robot when in motion in
emergency situations triggered by the safety system.
The mechanical brakes are automatically released again when the robot receives a new
order requiring it to move.

### Page 83

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
83
7. Safety system
The robot's safety system is responsible for stopping or slowing down the robot and its top
module in situations where personnel are at risk of injury.
MiR250 is equipped with a range of built-in safety-related functions as well as safety-related
electrical interfaces designed for integration with a top module. Each safety function and
interface is designed according to the standard ISO 13849-1. The safety-related functions
and interfaces are selected to support compliance with EN 1525 and ISO 3691-4.
7.11 System overview
The safety system is controlled mainly by the safety PLC. The PLC regulates inputs and
outputs from safety-related functions or interfaces involved with ensuring the safety of
personnel working nearby the robot.
If a safety function is triggered, the robot uses its STO (Safe Torque Off) contactors to bring
the robot to a category 0 stop (stopping by “immediate removal of power to the machine
actuators" according to IEC 60204-1) followed by a controlled brake using an SS1 (Safe Stop
1) function. This is known as bringing the robot into Emergency stop or Protective stop,
depending on the function—see  Types of stop below .
Some interfaces are also used to signal safety-related states between the top module and
robot, for example whether the robot is in motion or if the top module is in a state where
the robot must stop or slow down. Each of these are connected through the safety-related
electrical interfaces through two identical circuits to ensure redundancy.
Types of stop
There are four different stopped states:
•   Operational stop
•   Protective stop
•   Emergency stop
•   Manual stop
The last three types of stop are monitored by the safety PLC.

### Page 84

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
84
Operational stop
The robot is in Operational stop when it is stopped through the robot interface either
through a mission action or by pausing the mission. The top module and all moving parts are
still connected to a power supply.
Protective stop
The robot enters Protective stop automatically to ensure the safety of nearby personnel.
When the robot enters Protective stop, internal safety contactors are switched so the robot's
top application and all moving parts of the robot do not receive power. You can hear the
safety contactors emit audible clicks when they are switched.
When the robot is in Protective stop, the status lights of the robot turn red, and you are not
able to move the robot or send it on missions until you bring the robot out of the Protective
stop. The following cases describe the various Protective stops and how to bring the robot
out of Protective stop:
•   A safety laser scanner detects an object in its active protective field
Remove the object from the active protective field—see  Safety system on the previous
page . The robot will resume its operating state after two seconds.
•   The robot finishes the startup process
The Resume button will flash after startup. Press the flashing Resume button to bring the
robot out of Protective stop.
•   Switching between Manual mode and Autonomous mode
After turning the Operating mode key to switch operating modes, the robot enters
Protective stop, and the Resume button flashes. Press the Resume button to bring the
robot out of Protective stop.
•   The safety system detects a fault, or the motor control system detects a discrepancy
To bring the robot out of Protective stop, resolve the fault causing the error. Use
information regarding the error from the robot interface to determine the fault. For
further guidance, see the troubleshooting guides on the Distributor site.
Emergency stop
The robot enters Emergency stop when an Emergency stop button has been pressed
physically. When you press the Emergency stop button, internal safety contactors are
switched so the robot's top application and all moving parts of the robot do not receive
power. You can hear the safety contactors emit audible clicks when they are switched.

### Page 85

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
85
When the robot is in Emergency stop, the status lights of the robot turn red, and you are not
able to move the robot or send it on missions until you bring the robot out of the Emergency
stop. To do this, you must release the Emergency stop button and then press the Resume
button. The Resume button begins flashing blue after you have released the Emergency stop
button. If the robot is in Emergency stop, it will immediately resume an operating state after
you press the flashing Resume button.
MiR250 has one Emergency stop button and an option to connect additional Emergency stop
buttons through the electrical interface.
NOTICE
Only press the Emergency stop buttons in emergency situations. They are not
designed for frequent use.
Manual stop
The robot enters Manual stop when the red Manual stop button in the control panel is
pressed. Manual stop brings the robot into the same state as a Protective stop where it can
only be brought to an operational state by pressing the Resume button.
Safety-related functions
The following functions are integrated within the robot itself and cannot be modified or used
with other applications freely. The following list introduces the main safety-related functions
integrated in MiR250:

### Page 86

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
86
•   Collision avoidance
This function ensures that the robot stops before it collides with personnel or an object. If
the laser scanners detect an object or person within a defined protective field, the robot is
brought to a stop. The function determines the speed of the two drive wheels using motor
encoder data and switches between predefined protective fields accordingly. The faster
the speed, the larger the protective field is.
•   Overspeed avoidance
The safety system monitors if the motor encoder data indicates that the speed of each
motor is above the limits for maximum rated speed. If the limit is exceeded, the robot
enters Protective stop.
•   Stability
The safety system monitors if the motor encoder data indicates that the speed difference
between the two motors are above predefined limits. If the limit is exceeded, the robot
enters Protective stop.
Safety-related electrical interfaces
The following interfaces are parts of the Auxiliary emergency stop and Auxiliary safety
function interfaces that can be used to connect the safety PLC to a top module—see  Internal
parts on page 19 . Each electrical interface is redundant, meaning they use two identical
circuits. If one of the circuits fail, the robot enters Protective stop until both circuits are
working correctly again and the robot is restarted, ensuring safe communication between
the top module and robot—see  Interface specifications on page 194 .
The following list introduces the main safety-related electrical interfaces between MiR250
and its top module:
•   Emergency stop circuit
The Emergency stop circuit goes through the Auxiliary emergency stop interface and
connects to the top module. It is intended that any number of Emergency stop buttons can
be connected to the circuit. When the circuit is broken, the robot goes into Emergency
stop.
•   Safeguarded stop
This function consists of a circuit that goes through the Auxiliary safety function interface
that connects to the top module. This circuit can be used to bring the robot into Protective
stop until it is signaled otherwise.

### Page 87

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
87
•   Locomotion
The locomotion function signals when the robot is driving. This can be connected to a top
module if it should operate differently when the robot is driving, such as activating brakes
or disconnecting the power to actuators.
•   Shared emergency stop
This function consists of a shared circuit between the robot and top module, enabling
them to trigger each other into an Emergency stop.
•   Reduced speed
The reduced speed function can be connected to a top module, enabling it to make the
robot reduce its speed to 0.3 m/s. This is for example used by MiR lifts to ensure that the
robot does not drive fast when the lift is raised.
These functions are described in further detail in the following sections.
The diagram in  Figure 7.12  shows the inputs to these functions and interfaces and how they
are all connected and monitored in the safety PLC. The safety PLC is able to switch the
contactors to cut off power to the robot motors and the top module. Also, the safety
PLC sends information to the robot computer to be displayed in the robot interface and to
indicate the robot's status through the indicator lights and the speaker.

### Page 88

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
88
Figure 7.12. Overview of components involved in each safety function and interface. When a safety function is
triggered, the safety PLC switches the STO and brake contactors so the brakes, motors, and safe power supply
to the top module no longer receive power.
7.12 Collision avoidance
The collision avoidance function prevents the robot from colliding with personnel or
obstacles by stopping it before it collides with any detected obstacles. It does this using the
safety laser scanners.

### Page 89

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
89
Drives when the area is clear
Stops when an obstacle is detected
Figure 7.13. Collision avoidance ensures that the robot drives when its path is clear and stops if an obstacle is
detected within its protective field.
The safety laser scanners are programmed with two sets of protective fields. One field is
used when the robot is driving forward and another when it is driving backward. The
protective field sets are part of the robot’s personnel detection means. The protective field
sets consist of individually configured contours around the robot. The robot activates the
correct field set based on the speed. If a person or object is detected within the active
protective field set, the robot enters Protective stop until the protective field set is cleared of
obstacles for at least two seconds.
The tables in the following sections show the sizes of the protective field sets at given
speeds. The faster the robot moves, the larger the scanners' field set. The speed of the robot
is determined based on the encoder data.
The field sets on each side of MiR250 are 210 mm at all speeds.

### Page 90

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
90
WARNING
The protective field sets are configured to comply with the safety standards of
MiR250. Modifications may prevent the robot from stopping in time to avoid
collision with personnel and equipment. Any modifications of the configuration
file in the safety software will void the CE mark and compliance to all safety
standards listed in the specification of the application and in other way
declared.
•   Do not modify the safety system without a competent third party to
evaluate the safety of the design and performance of the robot after the
modification are applied.

### Page 91

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
91
Field sets when driving forward
The following table shows speeds and field sets when driving forward. The table describes
the length of the field set in front of the robot in different cases. Each case is defined by a
speed interval that the robot may operate at. The colors and cases in the table correspond to
the field set shown in the illustration below.
Case
Speed
Protective field range
Comments
1
0.0 to 0.10 m/s
80 mm
When pivoting
2
0.10 to 0.30 m/s
180 mm
3
0.10 to 0.50 m/s
360 mm
4
0.50 to 0.90 m/s
780 mm
5
0.90 to 1.30 m/s
1350 mm
6
1.30 to 1.70 m/s
2100 mm
7
1.70 to 2.10 m/s
2850 mm
Forward at max. speed
Figure 7.14. The illustration shows the field set contours when driving forward. The range of the field set
changes with the robot's speed.

### Page 92

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
92
Field sets when driving backward
The field sets for driving backward are the same as the field sets for driving forward.
However, the robot is limited to a top speed of 1.0 m/s when driving backward.
Case
Speed
Protective field range
Comments
1
0.0 to 0.10 m/s
80 mm
When pivoting
2
0.10 to 0.30 m/s
180 mm
3
0.10 to 0.50 m/s
360 mm
4
0.50 to 0.90 m/sz
780 mm
5
0.90 to 1.00 m/s
1350 mm
Backward at max. speed
Figure 7.15. The illustration shows the field set contours when driving backward. The range of the field set
changes with the robot's speed. The illustration also shows how the front scanner reduces its protective field
sets to a minimum when the robot moves backward.
NOTICE
Protective field tolerances
Scanners measure distances to diffuse reflections, which means that a
tolerance is added to the protective field sets to secure a safe detection of
persons crossing the protective field sets. The tolerance distance is 65 mm.

### Page 93

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
93
Muted personnel detection means
When performing tasks that require the robot to move very close to surrounding objects, the
robot mutes the personnel detection means.
CAUTION
When the robot has muted personnel detection means, it may not stop in time
to avoid collisions with obstacles or personnel in its path.
•   Mark areas where the robot mutes its personnel detection means as
operating hazard zones, and inform personnel not to enter the zone while
the robot is operating in it.
When muting the personnel detection means, the robot does the following:
•   Reduces the size of the field sets
•   Turns off Collision detection
•   Decreases the speed
•   Flashes the yellow indicator lights
You can also mute the personnel detection means using the robot interface:
1.   Put the robot into Manual mode—see  Driving the robot in Manual mode on page 50 .
2.   In the robot interface, select  Muted personnel detection means  in the joystick control.
3.   In the dialog, select  Yes  to acknowledge the muting of personnel detection means.
The status and the signal lights start flashing yellow, and the robot is ready to drive with
muted personnel detection means.
7.13 Overspeed avoidance
The overspeed avoidance function prevents the robot from driving if the motor encoders
measure that the robot is driving faster than the predefined safety limit. This can occur if
there is a hardware error in the robot, or if it drives down a steep slope.
If the robot is driving faster than the predefined safety limit, it is immediately brought into a
Protective stop. This ensures that the robot cannot drive if its speed cannot be controlled.

### Page 94

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
94
7.14 Stability
The stability function prevents the robot from driving if the motor encoders measure that
the expected difference between how fast each wheel turns is outside the predefined safety
limits. This indicates that the robot is not driving as intended, for example, if one of the
wheels loses traction.
If the robot detects instability, it is immediately brought into a Protective stop. This ensures
that the robot cannot drive if it has lost control of the speed of each drive wheel.
7.15 Emergency stop circuit
The Emergency stop circuit goes through the Auxiliary emergency stop interface and uses
external input to bring the robot into an Emergency stop. The interface uses two output pins
to provide a 24 V signal and two input pins to bring the robot into Emergency stop.
It is intended that the circuit is set up so the 24 V signal delivered from the safety
PLC outputs passes through all Emergency stop buttons of the top module and then continues
to the two input pins. When the input pins both receive 24 V, the robot can operate. The
connected Emergency stop buttons must break the circuit when you press them so both
inputs receive a 0 V signal that will bring the robot into Emergency stop.
If the circuit or an Emergency stop button is installed incorrectly so the input signals are not
the same, the robot enters Protective stop until the circuit is fixed.

### Page 95

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
95
Emergency stop button
released
Emergency stop button
pushed
Emergency stop circuit
faulty
Figure 7.16. If the input pins deliver 24 V to the robot, it can operate. When you push a connected Emergency
stop button, both pins deliver 0 V, and the robot enters Emergency stop. If the pins do not deliver the same
input, the robot enters Protective stop until the circuits are fixed.
In the Auxiliary emergency stop interface, pins 2 and 3 deliver 24 V from the safety PLC, and
pins 4 and 5 connect to the Emergency stop circuit inputs of the safety PLC. 24 V must be
delivered to pins 4 and 5 for the robot to operate.
7.16 Safeguarded stop
The safeguarded stop interface provides an input to the robot that can bring the robot into
Protective stop. This interface uses two input pins, where both pins must receive 24 V for the
robot to be able to operate. If either or both pins receive 0 V, the robot is brought into
Protective stop. The robot can be brought out of Protective stop again if both pins receive 24
V again.
If the pins are unequally set for more than three seconds, the safety PLC registers this as an
error in the system and needs to be reset before the robot can operate again. To do this, you
must restart the robot.

### Page 96

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
96
Signal to enable
operation
Signal to enter
Protective stop
Signal to enter
Protective stop
Figure 7.17. If both pins deliver 24 V to the robot, it can operate. If either or both of the pins deliver 0 V, the
robot enters Protective stop.
Pins 2 in interfaces A and B of the Auxiliary safety functions are used for the Safeguarded
stop function.
7.17 Locomotion
The Locomotion interface is used to signal to a top module that the robot is driving. This
function uses two output pins, where both pins deliver 0 V when the robot is driving and 24 V
when the robot is stopped. You can use this interface to make your top module behave
differently depending on whether the robot is driving or not. It is intended to be used to
ensure that the top module is programmed to go into a safe state when the robot is driving.
For example by engaging the brakes in any actuators that may result in injury to personnel.

### Page 97

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
97
Signal when driving
Signal when stopped
Figure 7.18. When the robot is driving, the safety PLC sends a 0 V signal to the top module through the Auxiliary
safety function interface. When the robot is stopped, the signal becomes 24 V.
Pins 5 in interfaces A and B of the Auxiliary safety functions are used for the Locomotion
function.
7.18 Shared emergency stop
The Shared emergency stop interface is used to control the Emergency stop state between
the robot and a top module. The interface has two inputs for bringing the robot into
Emergency stop and two outputs for signaling when the robot is in Emergency stop.
The outputs are used to signal to the top module that the robot is in Emergency stop. When
the robot is in an operational state, the outputs deliver 24 V. As soon as the robot enters
Emergency stop, they deliver 0 V.
The inputs are used to enable the top module to bring the robot into Emergency stop. When
both inputs deliver 24 V, the robot can operate, but as soon as either or both of the inputs
deliver 0 V, the robot enters Emergency stop.
These signals can be used if the top module has its own Emergency stop system and you
want both the robot and the top module to enter Emergency stop when either system is
triggered.

### Page 98

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
98
If the pins are unequally set for more than three seconds, the safety PLC registers this as an
error in the system and needs to be reset before the robot can operate again. To do this, you
must restart the robot.
Not in Emergency stop
Shared emergency stop
inputs are 0 V
Shared emergency stop
inputs are unequal
Figure 7.19. There are three cases described above. They illustrate respectively: 1. the robot is not in
Emergency stop so the output is 24 V, 2. the robot is in Emergency stop because it receives 0 V input from the
Shared emergency stop interface, 3. the robot is in Emergency stop because the inputs are unequal.
In interfaces A and B of the Auxiliary safety functions, pins 3 are used for the input and pins 6
are used for the input of the Shared emergency stop function.
7.19 Reduced speed
The Reduced speed interface is used to signal to the robot that it must drive at a reduced
speed of 0.3 m/s. This is the same speed used when the robot mutes its personnel detection
means. The interface uses two input pins where the robot drives at a reduced speed if either
input is 0 V.
This can for example be used in cases where the top module can register whether the load it
is carrying is not securely placed or the module is currently under operation.

### Page 99

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
99
Default speed
Reduced speed
Reduced speed
Figure 7.20. The robot drives at its default speed only when both inputs are 24 V. If either or both pins are 0 V,
the robot drives at 0.3 m/s.
Pins 4 in interfaces A and B of the Auxiliary safety functions are used for the Reduced speed
function.
7.20 Robot computer
The robot computer is connected to the safety PLC via an Ethernet cable. The safety PLC
sends all of the statuses of its various inputs to the robot computer so the information can be
sent to the robot interface. This enables you to identify which part of the safety system may
be causing a Protective or Emergency stop.
Additionally, the robot computer sends the current robot state to the power board which
regulates the indicator lights, ensuring that the status lights indicate which state the robot is
in.
7.21 Common issues
When the robot enters Protective or Emergency stop due to a component in the safety
system, you can identify exactly which component is causing the issue by signing in to the
robot interface and viewing the errors displayed under  Monitoring > Hardware Health >
Safety system .

### Page 100

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
100
7.22 Light indicators and speakers
The robot uses two types of light indicators to let people in the environment know what the
robot is currently doing or planning to do.
•   Status lights
An LED light band on all four sides of the robot uses colors and light motion patterns to
signal the current status of the robot.
•   Signal lights
The signal lights at the front and back of the robot show if the robot is about to turn a
corner or go backwards. Front lights are white and rear lights are red. Right and left turns
are indicated by blinking.
Pos.
Description
Pos.
Description
1
Status lights
2
Signal lights

### Page 101

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
101
Status lights
The LED light band running all the way around the robot indicates the robot’s current
operational state. Colors may also be used as part of missions, but as standard, the robot is
delivered with the following setup.
NOTICE
When the robot's battery reaches a critically low level of power (0-1%), the
ends of the status lights flash red.
Signal lights
Signal lights are used to indicate the robot’s immediate motion plans by signaling forwards-
backwards-braking and left-right turns.
The signal lights work similarly to lights used on cars; white at the front, red at the back, and
indicating a left or right turn by blinking.

### Page 102

7. Safety system
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
102
When the robot drives with muted personnel detection means, for example when docking to
a marker, all signal lights blink yellow.
Speakers
When the robot drives with muted personnel detection means it emits a warning sound. In
System > Settings > Safety system , you can choose which sound the robot makes and the
volume of the sound.
CAUTION
Changing the safety system can cause the robot to not comply with safety
standards.
NOTICE
It is the responsibility of the commissioner that the warning sounds are audible
in the robot's work environment.

### Page 103

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
103
8. Commissioning
This section describes how to commission MiR250.
Commissioning should be done without payload, except when doing brake tests where the
robot should have a payload equaling the heaviest load it will be driving with.
Only persons assigned with the commissioning task should be present during commissioning.
It is the responsibility of the commissioner to:
•   Analyze the work environment.
•   Make a risk assessment of the full installation.
•   Create and configure the site.
•   Configure audio and light signals according to the environment.
•   Create operating hazard zones.
•   Make a brake test.
•   Create user groups and users.
•   Create dashboards.
•   Update robot software.
•   Change the relevant system settings.
8.1 Analysis of the work environment
The work enviroment of the robot must fulfill a number of requirements for the robot to
function properly and safely. This section describes the factors that must be considered when
the robot is being commissioned to function in a work environment.
Surfaces
The floor surface of the work environment must be dry. MiR250 functions on many different
types of surfaces, but some materials can affect the performance and safety of the robot,
such as very thick carpets or slippery floors.
It is the responsibility of the commissioner to test the performance and safety of the robot
on the surfaces in the work environment—see  Brake test on page 138 .

### Page 104

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
104
Light, reflections, and materials
Bright sunlight and reflective or transparent objects can affect the performance of the
robot's laser scanners and cameras. This can result in the robot detecting nonexistent
objects or failing to detect real objects.
Likewise, docking to markers such as shelves, pallet racks, and VL-markers, made in very
high gloss or transparent materials can reduce the effectiveness of the robot's scanners,
hindering a successful docking.
It is the responsibility of the commissioner to test if sunlight, reflections from high gloss
materials, and transparent objects affect the robot's performance or safety.
Temperature and humidity
Temperatures outside of the approved temperature range can affect the performance and
durability of the robot—see specifications on the MiR website. This is especially relevant for
the robot's battery—see  Battery storage and disposal on page 64 .
Inclines, doorways, gaps, and sills
The robot must operate within the approved specifications for driving on inclines, through
doorways, and over gaps and sills—see specifications on the MiR website. Operating in areas
that no not meet the specifications may result in the robot failing the complete missions or
losing control of its load.
Space
The robot must have sufficient space to operate efficiently. Determine during commissioning
if the robot has sufficient space to drive, dock, turn, and perform other tasks. Make sure to
test each mission under the most likely operating conditions to determine if there is enough
space for the robot to maneuver.
CAUTION
Driving in environments with no escape routes can lead to hazardous
situations. There is a risk of damage to equipment or injury to personnel.
•   At all times there must be at least 0.5 m wide and 2.1 m high pedestrian
escape routes on each side of the robot, also in operating hazard zones.

### Page 105

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
105
Dust
Dusty environments can affect the performance and durability of the robot. Dust can get into
the robot computer and mechanical parts affecting their performance and durability, and it
can obstruct the view of the robot's sensor system. Make sure the environment MiR250
operates in is suitable for its IP rating—see specifications on the MiR website.
Static landmarks and dynamic obstacles
Be aware of both static landmarks and dynamic objects in the robot's work environment—
see  Navigation and control system on page 1 .
8.2 Risk assessment
To achieve a safe installation, it is necessary to make a risk assessment of MiR250 in the
environment it will be used in. This is the responsibility of the commissioner.
The risk assessment must cover not only MiR250 itself, but also take into account potential
load transfer stations, work cells, and the work environment.
NOTICE
Mobile Industrial Robots does not take any responsibility for the performance
of the risk assessment, but we provide information and guidelines that may be
used in this section.
CAUTION
Changing the SICK configuration on the robot requires a new CE certification.
Mobile Industrial Robots does not take any responsibility for the safety of the
robot if the SICK configuration is changed.
It is recommended that the commissioner follows the guidelines in ISO 12100, EN ISO3691-4,
EN 1525, ANSI B56.5, or other relevant standards to conduct the risk assessment.
In EN 1525, clause 4, there is a list of possible significant hazards and hazardous situations.

### Page 106

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
106
A risk assessment of the application must be used to determine the adequate information for
users. Special attention to at least the following Essential Health and Safety Requirements
(EHSR) must be taken:
•   1.2.2 Unexpected start for potential exposed persons
•   1.3.7 Risk related to moving parts
•   1.7.1 Information and warning on the machinery
•   1.7.2 Warning of residual risks
•   1.7.3 Marking of the machinery
•   1.7.4 Instructions
The risk assessment will lead to new instructions that shall be written by the party who draw
up the CE marking. The instructions must at least include:
•   Intended use and foreseeable misuse.
•   A list of residual risks.
•   Training required for personnel.
MiR has taken worst case scenarios into account in the design of MiR250.
8.3 Creating and configuring a map
The map is visible in the robot interface and is the basis for the robot's ability to navigate its
surroundings safely and efficiently. The map illustrates the physical area in which the robot
operates.
By placing features such as positions and markers—see  Creating markers and positions on
page 120 —, zones—see  Adding zones to the map on page 114 —, and walls in the map, you
enable the robot to perform missions—see  Creating a mission on page 128 .
It is important to create a robust, reliable map for the robot to perform effectively and
safely.
To create a new map, you drive the robot around its intended work environment while its
sensors gather data to generate a map from. This process is known as mapping.
As the robot moves during mapping, the laser scanners detect physical obstacles that are
recorded on the map as walls. In the editing afterward, you can remove all obstacles that
should not stay on the map, for example carts or boxes that were present at the time of
recording but will not stay permanently.

### Page 107

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
107
You can also import a .png image of the map, for example extracted from a
CAD drawing of the site.
For more information on creating a map,  see MiR Robot Reference Guide  and
the  Creating your first map -course in MiR Academy.
Creating the map
Before you map a new location, be sure to do the following preparations:
•   Clearing the area of dynamic obstacles, such as empty pallets and carts. Dynamic
obstacles can also be deleted from the map later.
•   Ensuring that all doors and gates that the robot should be able to go through are opened
before mapping.
Avoid doing the following:
•   Starting the mapping with the robot in a very open space.
•   Getting the robot stuck close to walls or objects as you will have to push it away manually.
To create a new map using the robot's mapping function, follow these steps:
1.   Sign in to the robot interface, and go to  Setup > Maps .
2.   Select  Create map .

### Page 108

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
108
3.   Name the map, and choose a site for the map in the drop down menu.
A site is a collection of information. It stores maps and all related
information in a package that can be shared between robots. Ensure that
maps for the same facility are in the same site. In  Setup > Maps , you can
import sites.
4.   Wait until the white square appears (3-5 seconds). This is a blank map.

### Page 109

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
109
5.   Select the three dots in the top left corner and start mapping by selecting  Record and
overwrite .
6.   In the In the upper right corner, select the joystick icon. Select  Manual control .

### Page 110

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
110
7.   A blinking recording icon
indicates that the mapping has started.
a.   Drive the robot around manually with the joystick—see  Driving the robot in Manual
mode on page 50 . The mapping window will update with new objects continuously.
b.   Focus on mapping in a circular pattern around the perimeter of the working
environment.
c.   When reaching long corridors with few obstacles, let the robot stay in position for
approximately five seconds before moving down the corridor.
d.   Walk behind the robot as you map.
e.   End the mapping in the same place you started it.
The joystick switches to medium speed during mapping. This ensures
better coverage of the mapped area.
8.   When the map looks complete, select  Stop
in the upper-left corner of the mapping
window.
Configuring the map
Once the mapping engine stops, the interface will show the newly recorded map on a grid
background.
To configure the map, follow these steps:
1.   Align the map so the walls are parallel to the grid lines behind it. Maps should be aligned
along the X-Y axis because the robot uses the X-Y axis to plan its routes.
Drag the map to rotate it. On desktop computers, holding the Shift key when dragging
the map rotates the map in increments of 11.25 degrees.

### Page 111

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
111
2.   When the map is aligned, select  Ok
in the upper left corner of the mapping window.
3.   Clean the map by drawing walls and floors and by erasing dynamic obstacles.
In the drop down menu, go to the walls layer by selecting  Walls .

### Page 112

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
112
4.   Select  Draw a new line
, and mark on the map where there are walls or other static
landmarks. It is a good idea to draw walls on top of all the walls and static objects the
robot has recorded with its laser scanners. This will help the robot's localization and
make the map more clean. Select  Finish current line
to finish a wall.
5.   Select the erase tool
. Use the tool to erase all unwanted objects on the map. The erase
tool will only erase walls when you are on the walls layer. Select the check mark
.

### Page 113

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
113
6.   In the drop down menu, go to the floors layer by selecting  Floors . The gray areas on the
map is where the floor is missing, but often the easiest thing to do is to add a whole new
floor on top of the mapped floor. Because you are on the floors layer, the new floor will
not have an effect on objects on the walls layer. Draw the floor area on the map. Select
Finish current shape
to finish a floor.

### Page 114

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
114
7.   Once you've cleaned the map, it should look neat and only contain static landmarks.
Select  Save current map
to save the map.
Adding zones to the map
Adding zones to the map helps organize robot traffic. There are several different zones that
can optimize the preferred paths and driving behavior of the robot.

### Page 115

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
115
NOTICE
All zones are ignored when you drive the robot in manual mode and if you use
a relative move action.
•   Directional zones
Lets you organize the motion of robots by specifying the directions in which the robots can
move in specific zones.
•   Preferred zones
The robot tries to run within a Preferred area, taking dynamic obstacles into account.
•
Unpreferred zones
The robot tries to avoid Unpreferred zones, but may go into it them if there are no other
possibilities.
•   Forbidden zones
The robot will never enter a forbidden zone, with three exceptions: making a relative
move, if a critical zone is on top of the forbidden zone, and if you drive the robot in
Manual mode. Then the robot is allowed to make a plan through it, as described under
Critical zones below.
•   Critical zones
The global planner of the robot is allowed to make a path through a critical zone with
complete disregard for other related zones, path guides, and obstacles.
Obstacles are not ignored by the local planner, and the robot will therefore not drive into
obstacles, even though it has a global plan through them, but will try a few times to follow
the plan before making a new global plan.
This zone is especially useful for driving on ramps and through automatic doors that both
can seem like obstacles at a distance. It can also be useful in narrow doorways as the
robot will have a global plan through it. The size of the zone should be kept to an absolute
minimum, even 1 pixel wide is enough in most cases. This helps the global planner to
make a simple plan through a critical fixed point in the environment.
•   Speed zones
The robot changes its speed when driving in the zone. However, the robot will not drive
faster than the limit set in  System > Settings > Planner > Maximum allowed speed —see
System settings on page 145 .
•   Sound and light zones
The robot blinks and/or makes a sound to catch attention.

### Page 116

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
116
•   Planner zones
Zone with six different setting options:
•   No localization
The robot ignores data from the laser scanners and uses encoders only to localize.
Useful for special driving, for example on ramps.
•   Look-ahead
Look-ahead is used to define a decreased field of view for the robot's cameras and
laser scanners.
•   Path timeout
Maximum amount of time the robot keeps trying to complete its path if the route is
blocked. It will deviate from the path unless path deviation is set to 0.
•   Path deviation
Maximum allowed distance the robot can deviate from its path.
•   Ignore obstacles
The robot ignores all obstacles detected with the 3D cameras with this action. This is
useful if you experience problems with the robot stopping in front of windows because
of sunlight.
•   Obstacle history clearing
Selects how the robot will clear its obstacle history while driving.  No clearing:  the
robot remembers all obstacles and only clears those in the field of view of cameras
and laser scanners.  Clear in front of robot:  the robot only clears its memory of
obstacles that it detects in a cone shape in front of it. The cone starts with the width of
the robot footprint and increases by 0.3 m per meter.  Clear all:  the robot disables
obstacle history altogether and only avoids obstacles that it detects with its sensors
while driving.
•   I/O module zones
The robot activates an I/O module when entering the zone. An I/O module zone may be
used instead of controlling I/O modules through a mission.
•   Limit-robots zones
Only applies when robots are controlled by MiR Fleet. The zone is used to keep an area
clear of robots by setting a limit for the number of robots allowed in the zone at the same
time. Additional robots will wait outside the zone for fleet permission to enter.
•   Evacuation zones
Applies only when robots are controlled by MiR Fleet. The zone makes it possible to
evacuate all robots in case of an emergency situation. Evacuation zones are inactive until
activated by an operator on MiR Fleet.

### Page 117

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
117
Examples of when and how to use zones:
Descending staircases
Issue:  The 3D cameras cannot detect descending staircases. Marking a staircase as a wall on
the map will only confuse the robot as it will try to navigate from a wall that is not there.
Solution:  Mark staircases and areas surrounding staircases or holes in the floor as
Forbidden zones on the map.
Low hanging fixtures
Issue:  If a low hanging fixture is installed that is outside of the robot sensors' range, the
robot may try to travel beneath it. This can be dangerous if the robot is carrying a tall top
module or load that can collide with the fixture.
Solution:  Mark the area where the low hanging fixture is located as a Forbidden zone.
Highly dynamic areas
A highly dynamic area is an area where objects are moved frequently. This could be a
production area where pallets and boxes are often moved back and forth.
Issue:  MiR250 will stop if a person steps out in front of it. In a transient work flow area, the
robot will stop and reassess its paths many times a day, thereby wasting valuable time.

### Page 118

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
118
Solution:  Mark highly dynamic areas on the map with for example Unpreferred zones or
Forbidden zones, depending on the environment. Directional zones can also be used here to
guide the robot in a specific direction.
Figure 8.1. Unpreferred zones (marked with purple) can be used in highly dynamic areas to solve issues with
re-planning of paths.
Doorways and ramps
Going through narrow doorways can cause problems for the robot or for the people working
near the robot, as they might not see the robot coming. Going up a ramp can cause similar
problems because of the upwards angle.
Issue:  The robot stops because a narrow doorway is seen as an obstacle. Due to sensor input,
the robot will not plan a path through a narrow doorway if it has an alternative path. The
robot will always stop if a person steps out in front of it.

### Page 119

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
119
Solution:  Add a Critical zone to the narrow doorway to force the global planner to make a
path through the corridor. Place the zone right at the edges of the doorway, but don't place
it on top of a wall, as this indicates to the robot that the wall isn't there. Add Sound and light
zones in narrow doorways to attract attention. This will warn people near the doorway that
the robot is coming through.
Figure 8.2. Narrow doorways can be marked with a Sound and light zone (marked with yellow) to warn people
that it is coming through. A Critical zone (orange) can be placed on the narrow doorway to force the global
planner to make a path through the corridor.
Shelves
Shelves are often placed in a certain height above the floor on four (or more) posts and will
often appear as dots on a map for the robot. This may cause the robot to believe that there
is enough space (if the posts are far enough apart) below the shelf to pass through. MiR250
will then plan a path underneath the shelves, but when it comes closer, the camera will see
the obstacle. This could result in re-planning paths several times a day, thereby wasting
valuable work time for the robot.
Issue:  The robot will only see shelves as dots on the map and believe that it can make a
global plan underneath the shelves.

### Page 120

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
120
Solution:  Add a Forbidden zone (marked red in the image) around the shelves.
Figure 8.3. The shelves are marked as a Forbidden zone in the map.
Glass
Some types of glass cannot be detected by the safety laser scanners.
Issue:  MiR250 will not stop before driving into a glass window, door, or other glass objects.
Solution:  Make the glass visible to the safety laser scanners by gluing window film on the
glass in the scanner height, 150 to 250 mm, or mark the area as a Forbidden zone.
8.4 Creating markers and positions
Markers and positions are defined as X-Y coordinates on a map that mark locations where
you want the robot to travel to. Markers are used to indicate positions where the robot must
position itself relative to a physical object making it more accurate, whereas positions mark
a point on the map the robot travels to based on the robot's location on the map determined
from localization—see  Navigation and control system on page 1 REF-FAIL .

### Page 121

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
121
Markers
Markers are points on the map that mark a physical entity, such as a charging station or a
pallet rack. Markers enable the robot to position itself accurately relative to a physical
object.
Markers require the robot to do a docking sequence. When the robot is docking, it uses its
safety laser scanners to detect the marker and drives itself to the correct position relative to
the detected marker. The robot begins docking to a marker from the marker's entry
position. The entry position is automatically created approximately one meter in front of the
marker and can be moved in the map editor.
There are three standard marker types that all MiR robots can use: V, L, and VL-markers.
A  V-marker  is a small, V-shaped marker. The V-marker is the simplest marker available to
the robot. It consists of a V shape with and interior angle of 120° and sides of 150 mm.
A  VL-marker  is a larger marker that generally enables the robot to dock more accurately
than V-markers. It consists of a V-marker with a 300 mm plate attached to the right of the V
shape.

### Page 122

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
122
An  L-marker  makes it possible for the robot to dock sideways. It is shaped liked an L, and the
dimensions are 400 mm x 600 mm. The outside have a clearly defined angle of 90˚.
A few centimeters between markers should make docking possible. Determine during
commissioning if more space is required.
For further information on markers, see the how-to guide  Create and dock to
V-, L-, and VL-markers . Contact your distributor.
Positions
Positions are used either as destination positions or as waypoints on a route that you want to
use in missions. The robot only uses its position determined from localization to drive to the
position making them less accurate than markers.
The final orientation of the robot is indicated by the arrow on the position image.
There are different types of positions depending on whether the robot is part of a fleet or
drives with top modules, but the standard position that is available in all MiR applications is
the  Robot position . This position has no special features, it simply marks a location where
you want to be able to send the robot to.

### Page 123

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
123
Creating a marker
Before creating a marker, you must ensure that the robot is localized correctly on an active
map. If in doubt, you can check if the red lines representing the laser scanner line match the
black lines on the map, as shown in  Figure 8.4 .
Figure 8.4. The red lines represent the obstacles the laser scanners detect. The robot is localized correctly
when the red lines align with the black lines that represent walls.
Once the robot is localized, you can insert a marker on the map. In this example, we are
using a VL-marker
.
1.   Place your physical marker where you want the robot to dock.
2.   Manually drive the robot to the marker so the robot is facing the marker.

### Page 124

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
124
3.   Go to  Setup > Maps  and select  Edit
for the active map.
4.   Within the editor, select  Markers  in the  Object-type  drop down menu, and then select
Draw new marker
in the editor tools.

### Page 125

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
125
5.   In the  Create marker  dialog box, name the marker. Under  Type , select you marker type.
In this case, a  VL-marker  is used. Then select  Detect marker .
The X, Y, and orientation values will automatically be filled out with the current position
of the robot. Set the offsets to 0. If you want to dock to the marker in reverse, set the
Offset orientation  to 180.
If the robot is too far from the VL-marker, a message that the robot failed
to locate the marker is displayed. Try moving the robot closer, and ensure
that the front safety laser scanner is positioned in front of the VL-marker.
6.   Select  OK  to create the marker. The marker is now visible on the map.

### Page 126

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
126
7.   The marker can be docked to by selecting it on the map and selecting  Go to . It can also
be used in missions.
To change the final position of the robot, you can select  Edit  to adjust the x or y offsets.
These are valued in meters and are based on the centerpoint of the robot towards the
marker.
Creating a position
The following steps describe how to create a position on a map. In this example, we are
creating a robot position
.

### Page 127

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
127
1.   In the robot interface, enter the map editor of the map where you want to create a
position. This is done by navigating to  Setup > Maps  and selecting  Edit
next to the
map you would like to work on.
2.   In the Object-type drop-down menu, select  Positions , and then select  Draw a new
position
.
3.   Select where on the map where you want the position to be, and choose in which
direction you want it to face.
4.   Name the position. Under  Type , you can select which type of position you want to make.
In this example we are making a robot position. Select  OK . You have now created a robot
position.

### Page 128

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
128
You can always edit a position or send a robot to the position by selecting it in the map.
You can always edit a position or send a robot to the position by clicking on it in the map.
8.5 Creating a mission
MiR robots function through missions that you create. A mission is made up of actions, such
as: move actions, logic actions, docking actions, and sounds, which can be put together to
form a mission with as many actions as needed. Missions themselves can also be embedded
into other missions.

### Page 129

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
129
Most actions have adjustable parameters, for example which position to go to. Most actions
can also use variables, enabling the user to choose the value of a parameter each time the
mission is added to the mission queue. This can be practical in cases where the robot
performs the same series of actions in different areas of the site that require different
parameter settings in the mission actions.
When you create a mission, you can save it in the default  Missions group , or you can choose
to save it in any of the available actions groups. The actions groups are found in the top bar
of the mission editor window, and you can distinguish missions from actions by the small
icons shown next to their names: missions have a target icon
, and actions have a running-
man icon
.
You can find more information about mission groups in  Mission groups on page 131 .
The  Mission  section also comes with a set of template missions that you can use and/or
modify.

### Page 130

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
130
When you create a mission, you must fill in the following information:
•   Name
The name must be unique and is used to identify the mission. For example,  Go to charging
station ,  Deliver spare parts  or  Warehouse to production line 1 .
•   Mission group
Select which group you want the mission to be part of.
•   Site
If you are using more than one site, select which site you want the mission to belong to.
Select  Create mission  to create a new mission that you can add actions to.

### Page 131

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
131
Mission groups
Each mission group has a number of predefined actions that can be selected when you build
the mission. One mission can contain actions from several groups. When you save the new
mission, it will be placed in the selected group and can be used as a separate mission or as
an embedded mission in other missions.

### Page 132

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
132
Create mission group
If you don't want to use any of the default group names, you can create your own group(s)
and save missions here. New groups will be shown in the top bar next to the default groups
and contain any mission(s) you want to add to it.
8.6 Creating a footprint
The footprint specifies how much space the robot occupies, including any loads or top
applications. The footprint is defined by a number of points relative to the robot's center
coordinate system. If your robot drives with loads or shelves that exceed the width or length
of the robot, you should define a new footprint for the robot to ensure that the robot
correctly plans its route to avoid colliding with obstacles with its top application or load.
For a more thorough guide to creating footprints, contact your distributor to
see the guide  How to change the robot footprint .
Follow these steps to create your own footprint:

### Page 133

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
133
1.   In  Setup > Footprints , select  Create footprint , and name the footprint.
2.   Drag the points to change the footprint.
•   You can choose to drag the points in simple mode for a rectangular footprint, or in
advanced mode for a footprint defined with four or more points. To toggle between
modes, select  Toggle mode
/   .
•   In each editor mode you can change the position of a point by either dragging it or by
inserting X and Y values for that point in meters in the text box in the bottom-left
corner.
The values displayed along the lines are the distances between points in
meters.
The maximum footprint is 3x3 m, and the maximum footprint height is
1.8 m.

### Page 134

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
134
3.   Select  Edit height/Edit footprint  if you need to change the height of the footprint. You
can either drag the column to the right of the robot, or insert a value in meters in the
text box in the bottom-left corner.
4.   When you are done, select  Save
to save the footprint.
You can use the footprint in various missions or set the footprint as the default footprint of
the robot.

### Page 135

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
135
If you want to change the footprint in a mission, for example if the robot picks up a shelf, use
the Set footprint action or a shelf template mission where the Set footprint action is already
implemented.
If you want to edit the default footprint of the robot, for example if the top application is
larger than the robot, go to  System > Settings > Planner , and select a new footprint under
Robot footprint .

### Page 136

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
136
8.7 Operating hazard zones
Operating hazard zones are areas that must be visibly marked to comply with safety
standards in EN 1525 and ISO 3691-4. Personnel must be instructed to stay clear of operating
hazard zones when a robot is approaching.
Areas where the robot drives with muted personnel detection means and areas with
inadequate clearance must be marked as operating hazard zones with signal tape or similar
marking material.
To create a sufficiently large operating hazard zone, the marking must be at least one meter
away from the potentially hazardous area in all directions.
It is not allowed to have work stations in operating hazard zones.
You can add zones to the map in the robot interface to mitigate the risks to personnel in
operating hazard zones. We recommend considering whether the adding the following zones
can reduce the risks in an operating hazard zone:
•   Speed zones can be used to reduce the speed of the robot to the minimum robot speed.
•   Sound and light zones can be used to add acoustical and visual warnings when the robot
drives into the zones
For more information about zones, see  Creating and configuring a map on page 106 .
Docking to a marker
When docking to a shelf, a charging station, or other physical markers, the robot mutes its
personnel detection means temporarily and the area must therefore be marked as an
operating hazard zone. For more information about markers, see  Creating markers and
positions on page 120 .
The muting starts when the robot reaches the entry position approximately one meter from
the marker. To indicate this to people nearby, MiR250 slows down and starts blinking yellow,
using the eight signal lights on the corners of the robot.

### Page 137

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
137
Figure 8.5. The striped black and yellow line identifies the hazard zone around a shelf. The dashed black line
indicates the amount of required free space for the robot to dock smoothly.
You must mark the floor area one meter around the docking marker and the robot when it is
at the entry position. This is illustrated in  Figure 8.5  where the robot is docking to a shelf.

### Page 138

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
138
NOTICE
The space required for a successful docking to a marker can be larger than the
operating hazard zone. Consider expanding the operating hazard zone to
include the required free space to ensure that personnel do not place objects
so they block the robot from docking to the marker.
8.8 Brake test
It is the responsibility of the commissioner to perform an adequate test of the robot's
braking capability.
The braking distance of MiR250 is particularly dependent upon four factors:
1.   The speed of the robot
2.   The payload of the robot
3.   The surface the robot drives on
4.   The decline of the surface the robot drives on
Because of this, it is not possible to predetermine the exact braking distance of MiR robots.
The distance has to be determined in the environment and under the driving conditions the
robot will be operating in.
The goal of the brake test is to ensure that the robot will brake in time to avoid a collision
with a human or object when driving with maximum payload, with different field sets for
different speeds, and at the steepest supported decline.
If the measured braking distance is too long, the field sets of the robot should be made
larger to ensure a safe installation. The field sets should always be at least somewhat larger
than the breaking distance at all speeds. To modify the field sets, see the guide  How to
adjust the field sets on MiR250/MiR500/MiR1000 . Contact your distributor for the guide.
8.9 Creating user groups and users
All users of the robot must have a user profile in the system. Users are administered in the
Users  section where you set up, edit, and delete system users.

### Page 139

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
139
The user profiles are created during commissioning. As default, the robot has three User
groups: User, Administrator and Distributor. Parts of the user interface can be locked by the
commissioner. The locked parts are typically related to the safety of the robot system, and
changing the settings can violate the CE-marking of the robot.
It is important to analyze and consider who is:
•   Working directly with MiR250 as direct users or operators?
•   Responsible for MiR250 as commissioner?
Furhtermore, the following questions should be answered:
•   How many different users are there?
•   What tasks do each user have with MiR250?
•   What permissions (read/write) should the different users have?
•   What functions or widgets should be available for the different users?
For more details on interface and dashboards,  see MiR Robot Reference
Guide .
Create user groups
In  Setup > User groups  you can create specific user groups with specific access to different
parts of the robot interface.
Figure 8.6. You can create specific user groups.

### Page 140

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
140
Under  Set permissions , you can select the specific parts of the robot interface that the user
group has access to.
Figure 8.7. You can select the specific parts of the robot interface that the user group has access to.
Create users
In  Setup > Users , you can create new users and select:
•   Which user group they belong in.
•   If they are Single dashboard users with no access to other parts of the interface than to
control the robot from a dashboard.
•   If they should be allowed quick access to the interface via a four digit PIN code. We only
recommend PIN codes for users with no access to settings and safety system.

### Page 141

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
141
The following table contains some of the recommended permission settings for different
user groups:
Feature
User group
Controling the robot manually
Operator
Creating maps and positions
Commissioner
Creating and editing missions
Operator
Adjusting warning sounds
Commissioner
Creating new user groups
Commissioner
Assigning missions
Direct user
Changing system settings
Commissioner
8.10 Creating dashboards
To make the user experience as easy and simple as possible, you can build a unique
dashboard for each user. Dashboards are an easy way for different user groups to control
the robot giving direct access to their individual key functions.

### Page 142

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
142
For more details on interface and dashboards,  see MiR Robot Reference
Guide .
A dashboard is made up of a number of widgets, each representing a feature in the system,
for example a particular mission, the map the robot is operating on, or the current mission
queue.
The system comes with a default dashboard, and users with access rights to create
dashboards can create an unlimited number of additional customized dashboards.
To create a custom dashboard:
1.   Go to  Dashboards > Dashboards , and select  Create dashboard .
2.   Name the dashboard, and select  Create dashboard .

### Page 143

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
143
3.   In the design section:
•   Design the dashboard by adding widgets from the menus in the top bar that represent
the features you want to assign to the dashboard.
•   Resize the widgets by pulling the arrow in the lower right-hand corner, and rearrange
their order by click-dragging.
•   Some widgets require further settings. For example, you must select a particular
mission for mission buttons. To do this, select the pen icon in the lower left-hand
corner, and select the wanted action.
4.   Select  Save  to save the dashboard. The dashboard is now available under  Dashboards .
For details on the widgets and missions available in dashboards,  see MiR
Robot Reference Guide .
8.11 Updating MiR250 software
MiR continuously updates the software the robots use, either to fix issues, to improve
existing features, or to introduce new features. Each software release is issued with a
release note explaining the content of the update and its target audience.
Contact your distributor for the latest update file.
Follow the steps below to update MiR250 software:

### Page 144

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
144
1.   Connect your computer to the WiFi of the robot you want to update, and sign in to the
robot interface.
2.   Go to  System > Software versions  and select  Upload software .
3.   Locate and select the downloaded software package. It may take a few minutes for the
package to successfully upload.
4.   Once the software is uploaded, turn the robot off and then on again.
8.12 Creating backups
It can be useful to create a backup if you want to be able to revert to the exact state of the
current software, including data such as settings, missions, and reports at a later stage.
To make a backup of your system, go to  System > Backups . Select  Create backup .
When the state displays  Success , you have created a backup of your system.
Follow the steps below to revert to a previous system:
1.   Go to  System > Backups . Choose the back up version you want to revert to, and select
View
.

### Page 145

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
145
2.   Select  Roll back . You have now reverted your robot back to the saved version.
8.13 System settings
This section describes some of the commonly used system settings of MiR250 that the
commissioner must be aware of.
Only the basic system settings are explained in this section, see MiR Robot
Reference Guide  for more information.
In  System > Settings , users can access the settings of the robot. Access to the settings must
be restricted by the commissioner—see  Creating user groups and users on page 138 .

### Page 146

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
146
Planner
In the Planner section, you set the basic parameters for driving the robot.

### Page 147

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
147
Robot height  defines the height of the robot including top modules. Use this setting if your
robot operates permanently with a top module that makes the combined robot application
higher than the robot itself. This prevents the robot from colliding with obstacles from
above.
Max distance from path  and  Max distance from path with cart  defines the maximum
allowed distance in meters that the robot is allowed to deviate from the optimal path in the
map.
Maximum planning time  defines the maximum time allowed in seconds for planning a path.
Path timeout  defines the maximum time allowed in seconds before the robot asks for a new
plan if the robot's path is blocked.
Path deviation  defines the maximum distance in meters that the robot is allowed to deviate
from the path planner in the map before it makes a new path.

### Page 148

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
148
Optimizing the distance, time, timeout and deviation of paths, is useful in situations where
you want to configure how strictly the robot should follow the path it has planned. Making
the robot follow the exact path it has planned with little or no deviation is known as Line-
following. The can be useful, for example, in narrow corridors where there isn't enough
space for the robot to go around dynamic obstacles—see  Figure 8.8 . When there isn't
enough space for the robot to go around an obstacle, it will often spend more time trying to
maneuver around the obstacle and correct its trajectory afterward than it would have just
waiting for the obstacle to move out of the way itself.
Line-following disabled
Line-following enabled
Figure 8.8. Example of where the robot might benefit from using a Line-following configuration.
Maximum allowed speed  defines the overall speed limit of the robot in meters per second.
The maximum allowed speed will never be exceeded no matter what is stated in the
mission. This setting can be useful if, for example, the robot transports motion sensitive
objects, or if the work environment in other ways require the robot to always stay below a
certain speed threshold.
Desired speed  sets the default speed of the robot. This setting can be useful in the same way
as maximum allowed speed, but with this setting, the robot will drive faster than the set
desired speed in a speed zone that requires it.
Docking
In the Docking section, you can change the parameters regarding docking to and from
markers.

### Page 149

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
149
In  Undock from markers , you can select if the robot should undock from a marker before it
starts moving from a docked position. It is usually best to set this setting to  True  to prevent
the robot going into protective stop when moving away from markers.
Select  Show advanced settings  to see the advanced docking settings.
In the advanced settings, you can adjust the parameters for docking to markers. This can be
useful in case of docking issues.
Safety system
In the Safety system section, you can change the safety settings of the robot.

### Page 150

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
150
Select  Muted protective fields sound  to change the warning sound that is played when the
robot drives with muted protective fields.
Select  Muted protective fields volume  to set the volume in decibel for the warning sound
that is played when the robot drives with muted protective fields.
CAUTION
Driving with with muted protective fields without audible warning sound risks
damage to personnel and voids the CE marking of the application.
•   Always have the robot play an audible warning sound when driving with
muted protective fields.
Features
In the features setting, you can disable and enable robot features.

### Page 151

8. Commissioning
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
151
Shelf  enables the shelf feature. Select  True  if the robot is used to pick up and place shelves.
Email address  enables an action for sending emails from missions.
PLC registers  enables actions for setting PLC registers from missions and monitoring PLC
registers in the robot interface.
Universal Robots Interface  enables an action for running Universal Robots-programs from
missions. It can be set to  True  if MiR250 drives with an application from Universal Robots.
Fleet  makes the robot visible for a MiR Fleet. Select  True  if the robot is part of a fleet.
Modbus  enables modbus.
I/O modules  adds actions for communicating with  I/O modules . Select  True  if the robot
uses I/O modules.

### Page 152

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
152
9. Usage
The main way to use MiR250 is through missions that you create.
In the following sections, you will find practical examples of how missions can be tailored to
different tasks. The examples include:
•   Creating a mission that uses a Prompt user action. The example mission is titled  Prompt
user .
•   Creating a mission that uses a Try/Catch action. The example mission is titled  Try/Catch .
•   Creating a mission that uses variables. The example mission is titled  Variable footprint .
•   Creating a mission that makes the robot drive through an 80 cm doorway. The example
mission is titled  80 cm doorway .
9.1 Creating the  Prompt user  mission
Prompt user actions are used for prompting the user with a question on how the robot
should proceed. The  Prompt user  mission uses a Prompt user action that lets you choose
whether to send the robot to one position or another.
To create the  Prompt user  mission, it is assumed that you have completed the following:
•   Created two robot positions named  p1  and  p2  as described in  Creating markers and
positions on page 120 .
•   Defined a user group named  Users .
To create the mission, follow the steps below:

### Page 153

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
153
1.   Go to  Setup > Missions . Select  Create Mission .
2.   Name the mission  Prompt user . Select the group and site you want it to belong to. Select
Create mission .

### Page 154

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
154
3.   Select the following actions:
•   In the  Logic  menu, select  Prompt user .
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Move .
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Move .
The following steps describe which parameters each action should be set to. To modify
the parameters, select the gearwheel
at the right end of the action line to open the
action dialog box. When you have set the parameters, select  Validate and close .

### Page 155

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
155
4.   In the  Prompt user  action, set the parameters as follows:
•
Question : Enter the question  Go to position one? .
•
User group : Select  Users .
•
Timeout : Set the timeout to 10 minutes.
5.   In the  Prompt user  action, drag a  Move to  action into the  Yes  box and a  Move to  action
into the  No  box.

### Page 156

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
156
6.   In the first  Move to  action, under  Position , select  p1 .

### Page 157

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
157
7.   In the second  Move to  action, under  Position , select  p2 .
The mission should look like this:
8.   Select
Save  to save the mission.
9.2 Creating the  Try/Catch  mission
Try/Catch actions are used to handle mission errors. When you use a Try/Catch action, you
can define what the robot should do if it at any point fails to execute its main mission. This
prevents the robot from going into an error state and stopping in the middle of a mission by

### Page 158

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
158
providing an alternative course of action if the main mission fails.
In the  Try/Catch  mission example, the robot runs the  Prompt user  mission created in
Creating the Prompt user mission on page 152 , and if the robot for some reason fails to
complete the mission, the robot plays a sound.
To create the  Try/Catch  mission, it is assumed you have completed the following:
•   Created the  Prompt user  mission as described in  Creating the Prompt user mission on
page 152 .
To create the mission, follow the steps below:
1.   Go to  Setup > Missions . Select  Create Mission .
2.   Name the mission  Try/Catch . Select the group and site you want it to belong to. Select
Create mission .

### Page 159

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
159
3.   Select the following actions:
•   In the  Error handling  menu, select  Try/Catch .
•   Select the  Prompt user  mission you have made.
The mission group you have saved the mission under will figure as a
menu in the mission editor. The menus contain both missions and
actions.
Missions have this icon
and actions have this icon
.
In this example, the mission is saved under the  Logic  menu that also
includes the  Prompt user  action
. Be sure to select the  Prompt user
mission
.
•   In the  Sound/Light  menu, select  Play sound .

### Page 160

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
160
The following steps describe which parameters each action should be set to. To modify
the parameters, select the gearwheel
at the right end of the action line to open the
action dialog box. When you have set the parameters, select  Validate and close .
4.   Drag the  Prompt user  mission into the  Try  box under  Try/Catch .

### Page 161

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
161
5.   Drag the  Play sound  action under the  Catch  box under  Try/Catch .

### Page 162

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
162
6.   In the  Play sound  action, set the parameters as follows:
•   Sound : Select  Beep .
•   Volume : Enter the value  80 . This is approximately 64 dB.
•   Mode : Select  Custom length  so you can enter the duration of time the sound is
played.
•   Duration : Set the duration to two minutes.
The mission should look like this:

### Page 163

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
163
7.   Select
Save  to save the mission.
9.3 Creating the  Variable footprint  mission
All mission actions that require the user to specify the value of a parameter when they
choose to use the mission have the option of defining a variable. If you use a variable in a
mission when you add the mission to the mission queue or nest it inside another mission, you
must select a value for the parameter where the variable is used. This allows you to reuse
the same mission for different but still similar tasks.
The  Variable footprint  mission enables you to select which footprint the robot should use
each time the mission is run.
To create the mission, follow the steps below:
1.   Go to  Setup > Missions . Select  Create Mission .
2.   Name the mission  Variable footprint . Select the group and site you want it to belong to.
Select  Create mission .

### Page 164

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
164
3.   Select the following actions:
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Set footprint .
The following steps describe which parameters each action should be set to. To modify
the parameters, select the gearwheel
at the right end of the action line to open the
action dialog box. When you have set the parameters, select  Validate and close .

### Page 165

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
165
4.   In the  Select footprint  action, make the parameter  Footprint  a variable that can be set
each time you use the mission. The following steps describe how to create a variable:
a.   Under  Footprint , select  Variables
.
b.   Select  Create variable  in the upper-right corner.
c.   Name the variable  Use default footprint or narrow footprint? . Select  OK .

### Page 166

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
166
The mission should look like this:
5.   Select
Save  to save the mission.
9.4 Creating the  80 cm doorway  mission
This section describes how to create a mission that makes the robot drive through a doorway
that is 80 cm wide in one direction. To do this the robot does the following actions:
1.   Moves to a position in front of the 80 cm wide doorway (the narrowest possible for
MiR250).
2.   Adjusts its localization.
3.   Sets a defined narrow footprint.
4.   Mutes its protective fields so it can traverse the doorway.
5.   Goes through the doorway to a position on the other side.
6.   Changes its footprint back to default.
To create the mission, it is assumed that you have completed the following:
•   Created a map. To drive through narrow doorways, it is very important that the map is
accurate and thoroughly cleaned, and that the robot is localized accurately—see  Creating
and configuring a map on page 106 .

### Page 167

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
167
For better localization, draw the walls where the doorway is, and make the
doorway approximately one meter wide in the map by deleting some of the
walls on each side of the doorway. You may need to delete more of the wall
if the robot will not go through the doorway.
•   Placed a robot position
on each side of the doorway where the first position is named
pos 1  and the second  pos 2 . The positions must be placed in front of and directly in the
middle of the doorway, and they must point in the same direction (the driving direction of
the robot).
•   Made the area around the doorway an operating hazard zone as the robot will be driving
through the doorway with muted personnel detection means—see  Operating hazard
zones on page 136 .

### Page 168

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
168
•   Enabled the muting of personnel detection means. Go to  System > Settings > Features ,
and set  Mute protective fields  to  True .
•   Enabled the use of dynamic footprints. Go to  System > Settings > Planner > Show
advanced settings , and set  Use dynamic footprint  to  True .

### Page 169

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
169
•   Created a footprint named  Narrow doorway  that is 620 mm wide and 1300 mm long—
see  Creating a footprint on page 132 . The robot must be centered in the middle of the
footprint.
This mission only drives the robot through the doorway in one direction. If you
want the robot to go both ways you need to make a new set of position facing
the opposition direction and a new mission using these positions.
To create the mission, follow the steps below:

### Page 170

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
170
1.   Go to  Setup > Missions . Select  Create Mission .
2.   Name the mission  80 cm doorway . Select the group and site you want it to belong to.
Select  Create mission .

### Page 171

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
171
3.   Select the following actions:
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Move to .
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Adjust localization .
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Set footprint .
•   In the  Safety system  menu, select  Mute protective fields .
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Move to  and drag it into the  Mute protective fields  action.
•   In the  Move  menu, select  Set footprint .
The following steps describe which parameters each action should be set to. To modify
the parameters, select the gearwheel
at the right end of the action line to open the
action dialog box. When you have set the parameters, select  Validate and close .
4.   In the  Move  action, under  Position , select  pos 1 .

### Page 172

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
172
5.   In the  Set footprint  action, select  Narrow doorway .
6.   In the  Mute protective fields  action, set the parameters as follows:
•   Sound : Select  Beep .
•   Volume : Enter the value 60. This is 48 dB approximately.
•   Front : Select  Muted .
•   Rear : Select  Muted .
•   Sides : Select  Muted .

### Page 173

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
173
7.   In the  Move  action, under  Position , select  pos 2 .
8.   In the  Set footprint  action, select the robot's default footprint.
9.   Select  Save
to save the mission.
9.5 Testing a mission
Run the mission to test that the robot executes the mission correctly.
NOTICE
Always test missions without payload to minimize potential hazards.
To run the mission, follow these steps:

### Page 174

9. Usage
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
174
1.   Go to  Setup > Missions .
2.   Select  Queue mission
next to the mission you just created. The mission is now added
to the mission queue.
3.   Select  Continue
to start the mission.
4.   Watch the robot execute the mission, and verify that it performs as expected.

### Page 175

10. Applications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
175
10. Applications
You can install top modules on top of MiR250 for specific applications. For more information
about top modules, go to the MiR webpage.
For instructions on how to mount top modules and accessories, contact your distributor.
10.1 Mounting a top module
MiR250 has four M8 holes for mounting top modules as shown in  Figure 10.1 . The tightening
torque is 18 Nm.
Figure 10.1. Mounting holes on the top of MiR250.

### Page 176

10. Applications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
176
Certain top modules may require the installation of an extra Emergency stop button.
Perform a risk assessment according to standard ISO 12100—see  Risk assessment on
page 105
The mounting holes are in the chassis, so the top cover does not need to be on the robot
when you mount a top application.
CAUTION
Certain top modules may lead to new hazards and/or increased risks that
cannot be eliminated or reduced by the risk reduction measures applied by
Mobile Industrial Robots.
•   Perform a risk assessment according to standard ISO 12100 when mounting
a top module—see  Risk assessment on page 105
CAUTION
MiR250 may tip over if weight and payload specifications are not met, risking
damage to equipment or injury to nearby personnel.
•   Stay within the specifications for weight and the total payload’s center of
gravity—see  Payload specifications on page 187 .

### Page 177

11. Maintenance
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
177
11. Maintenance
The following maintenance schedules give an overview of regular cleaning and parts
replacement procedures.
It is the responsibility of the operator to perform all maintenance tasks on the robot.
The stated intervals are meant as guidelines and depend on the operating
environment and frequency of usage of the robot.
NOTICE
Only use approved spare parts. Contact your distributor for the list of spare
parts.
Mobile Industrial Robots disclaims any and all liability if unapproved spare
parts are used. Mobile Industrial Robots can not be held responsible for any
damages caused to the robot, accessories or any other equipment due to use
of unapproved spare parts.
11.1 Regular weekly checks and maintenance
tasks
Once a week, carry out the following maintenance tasks:
Parts
Maintenance tasks
Robot top plate and
covers
Clean the robot on the outside with a damp cloth.
Do not use compressed air.
Laser scanners
Clean the optics covers of the scanners for optimum
performance. Avoid aggressive or abrasive cleaning agents.

### Page 178

11. Maintenance
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
178
Parts
Maintenance tasks
In the robot interface under  Monitoring > Hardware health >
Emergency stop , see if  Front scanner cover  and  Back scanner
cover  is  Clean .
NOTICE
Static charges cause dust particles to be attracted
to the optics cover. You can diminish this effect by
using the anti-static plastic cleaner (SICK part no.
5600006) and the SICK lens cloth (part no.
4003353). See the manufacturer’s own
documentation.
Caster wheels (the
four corner wheels)
Remove dirt with a damp cloth, and make sure nothing is
entangled in the wheels.
Drive wheels (the
two middle wheels)
Remove dirt with a damp cloth, and make sure nothing is
entangled in the wheels.
Status lights
Check if the LED light band is intact. Ensure the light shows all
the way around the robot. Clean with a soft cloth to ensure even
lighting around the robot.
Signal lights
Check if the signal lights on the four corners blink and show
correctly.
11.2 Regular checks and replacements
Before starting replacement tasks that involve removal of the top plate or side covers or
accessing the rear compartment:
•   Shut down the robot—see  Shutting down the robot on page 57 .
•   Disconnect the battery—see  Packing for transportation on page 183 .
The following table contains the parts that you should check and how often you should do
that:

### Page 179

11. Maintenance
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
179
Part
Maintenance
Interval
Robot top
cover
Check mounting. Ensure it sits
evenly on top of the robot with
connections accessible.
Check monthly, and replace as
needed.
Laser scanner
In the robot interface under
Monitoring > Hardware health
> Communication , see if the
robot is running with the correct
SICK configuration, or if the
warning  The SICK Safety PLC is
running a non-standard
configuration  appears.
Check monthly and after
commissioning, or if you make
any changes to the robot setup.
Robot
hardware
In the robot interface under
Monitoring > Hardware health ,
check if there are any warnings
(marked with yellow).
Check monthly and after
commissioning, or if you make
any changes to the robot setup.
Front, rear,
and side
compartment
covers
Check mounting. Ensure the
covers are even and are not in
contact with the wheels.
Check monthly, and replace as
needed.
If you replace the
coverwith the
robot's
nameplate, make
sure to mount a
new copy of the
nameplate to the
replacement
cover.
Loudspeaker
and signal
lights
Check that all visual and
auditory warnings function.
Check monthly, and replace as
needed.
Caster wheels
Check bearings and tighten, and
Check weekly, and replace as

### Page 180

11. Maintenance
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
180
Part
Maintenance
Interval
(the four
corner wheels)
check the wheels for wear and
tear.
needed.
Drive wheels
(the two
middle-wheels)
Check wheel surfaces for wear.
Check every six months, and
replace as needed.
NOTICE
The robot must
be calibrated
after
replacement of
the wheels.
Safety laser
scanners
Check for visual defects, for
example cracks and scratches.
Replace as needed.
NOTICE
The robot must
be calibrated
after
replacement of
the scanners.
Control panel
Check that all buttons on the
control panel function.
Every three to four months.
Emergency
stop
Check that the Emergency stop
buttons work, push down the red
button, and check that the
Emergency reset button lights
up.
Every three to four months /
according to  EN/ISO 13850
Safety of machinery -
Emergency stop function.
Charging
pads/broom
Check if the charging pads are
dirty or dusty and if the broom is
intact. Clean the broom.
Check every six months, and
replace as needed.

### Page 181

11. Maintenance
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
181
Part
Maintenance
Interval
3D cameras
Check for visual defects, for
example cracks and scratches.
Check monthly, and replace as
needed.
Proximity
sensors
Check for dust or dirt and clean
with a swab.
Check weekly.
Manual brake
release switch
Check if the Manual brake
release switch functions.
Release the brakes, and push the
robot gently forward.
Remember to enable the brakes
again when done.
Check monthly, and replace as
needed.
Safety marking
on the floor
Check if the safety markings
around operating hazard zones
are intact and visible.
Check every six months and
replace as needed.
Safety stickers
and nameplate
Check if the safety stickers, ID
label, and nameplate on the
robot are still intact and visible.
Check every six months, and
replace as needed.
CAUTION
A robot that has been impacted may be structurally damaged, risking
malfunction and damage to personnel.
•   If you suspect the robot has suffered any damage, you need to conduct a
thorough inspection to ensure that the robot's strength and structure is not
compromised.
11.3 Battery maintenance
The battery is generally maintenance-free but should be cleaned if it gets very dirty. When
cleaning, the battery must be removed from any power source. Only use a dry and soft cloth
to clean the housing of the battery and do not use abrasives or solvents.

### Page 182

11. Maintenance
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
182
For storage of battery, see  Enabling fast swap and swapping out the lithium-ion battery on
page 60 .
For disposal of batteries, see  Disposal of robot on page 186

### Page 183

12. Packing for transportation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
183
12. Packing for transportation
This section describes how to pack the robot for transportation.
12.1 Original packaging
Use the original packaging materials when transporting the robot.
The packaging materials are:
•   The bottom of the box (the pallet)
•   The lid of the box (the ramp)
•   The walls of the box
•   Protective foam blocks: Side blocks and the top layer
•   Protective corner braces. The braces prevent the robot from being damaged by the
transport straps

### Page 184

12. Packing for transportation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
184
12.2 Packing the robot for transportation
Before packing the robot for transportation, you need to access the rear compartment—see
Accessing the internal parts on page 27 —, and shut down the robot—see  Shutting down the
robot on page 57 .
Follow these steps to pack the robot for transportation:
1.   Turn the battery lock clockwise to release it.
2.   Press down on the battery lever.

### Page 185

12. Packing for transportation
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
185
NOTICE
Pack and transport the robot in an upright position. Packing and transporting
the robot in any other position voids the warranty.
12.3 Battery
The lithium-ion battery is subject to transport regulations. Make sure that you follow the
safety precautions in this section and the instructions in  Packing for transportation on
page 183 . Different regulations apply depending on the mode of transportation: land, sea, or
air.
Contact your distributor for more information.
CAUTION
Lithium-ion batteries are subject to special transportation regulations
according to United Nations Regulation of Dangerous Goods, UN 3171. Special
transport documentation is required to comply with these regulations. This
may influence both transport time and costs.

### Page 186

13. Disposal of robot
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
186
13. Disposal of robot
MiR250 robots must be disposed of in accordance with the applicable national laws,
regulations, and standards.
Fee for disposal and handling of electronic waste of Mobile Industrial Robots A/S robots sold
on the Danish market is prepaid to DPA-system by Mobile Industrial Robots A/S. Importers in
countries covered by the European WEEE Directive 2012/19/EU must make their own
registration to the national WEEE register of their country. The fee is typically less than 1€
per robot. A list of national registers can be found here:  https://www.ewrn.org/national-
registers.
For Battery storage and disposal, see  Battery storage and disposal on page 64 .

### Page 187

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
187
14. Payload specifications
The following drawings illustrate where the center of mass (CoM) of payloads must be
located for safe operation with different payloads.
WARNING
Load falling or robot overturning if the load on MiR250 is not positioned or
fastened correctly can cause fall injuries to nearby personnel or damage to
equipment.
•   Ensure that the load is positioned according to the specifications and is
fastened correctly.
CAUTION
Bumps and holes can cause payloads to fall off the robot, causing damage to
equipment and injury to personnel.
•   The floor the robot drives on must be even without bumps and holes for the
payload specifications to be valid. If bumps and holes are present, the
commissioner must take additional measures to ensure a safe operation.
CAUTION
A slippery surface can cause instability when driving with payloads, causing
damage to equipment and injury to personnel.
•   The friction coefficient between the floor and the driven wheels on the
robot must be in the range of 0.60 to 0.80 for the payload specifications to
be valid. If the friction coefficient is not in this range, the commissioner
must take additional measures to ensure a safe operation.
The specifications apply to total payloads of up to 250 kg.

### Page 188

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
188
14.1 Side view
At 1.2 m/s with no incline

### Page 189

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
189
At 2.0 m/s with no incline

### Page 190

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
190
14.2 Front view
At 1.2 m/s with no incline

### Page 191

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
191
At 2.0 m/s with no incline

### Page 192

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
192
14.3 Top view
At 1.2 m/s with no incline

### Page 193

14. Payload specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
193
At 2.0 m/s with no incline

### Page 194

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
194
15. Interface specifications
This section describes the specifications of the top application interfaces.
NOTICE
Read  Safety on page 32   before using the electrical interface.
MiR250 has seven electrical interfaces divided into two groups:
•   Robot's left side:
•   Power
•   Emergency stop
•   Ethernet
•   Robot's right side:
•   GPIO A
•   GPIO B
•   Auxiliary Safety Functions A
•   Auxiliary Safety Functions B
To see the locations of the interfaces on the robot, see  Internal parts on page 19 .
15.1 Left side interfaces
This section describes the general purpose interfaces located in the left side compartment
on top of MiR250.

### Page 195

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
195
Power
Figure 15.1. Pin numbers: female connector viewed from the front (left) and wiring diagram (right).
The maximum current across pins 1 and 3 combined is 10A. You cannot
receive 10A from both of them at the same time.
CAUTION
Connecting power and ground signals to the chassis while stacking the 24 V
and 48 V power supplies can lead to severe damage to the robot and electrical
shock.
•   Never connect power and ground signals to the chassis, and never stack the
24 V and 48 V power supplies.
CAUTION
Connecting 48 V power supplies to 24 V pins or vice versa can lead to severe
damage to the robot and electrical shock.
•   Never connect 48 V power supplies to 24 V pins or vice versa.

### Page 196

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
196
Table 15.1  describes the pins of the power interface.
Pin
no.
Signal name
Max.
current
Description
1
48V power
10A
Always active when robot is on.
Intended for high power loads like motors and
actuators.
Voltage range before the powerboard shuts off:
41 V to 53.8 V.
2
GND
Power ground.
3
48V safe
power
10A
Inactive in case of a Protective or Emergency
stop.
This output is controlled by the internal safety
PLC through the STO contactor to ensure that
power is always disconnected from this pin in
case of a Protective or Emergency stop.
Intended for high power loads like motors or
actuators.
Voltage range before the powerboard shuts off:
41 V to 53.8 V.
4
GND
Power ground.
5
Isolated 24V
Fully isolated from the robot.
6
Isolated GND
Fully isolated from the robot.
7
Unassigned
Unassigned.
Table 15.1. Description on the pins in the power interface.

### Page 197

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
197
Emergency stop
Table 15.2  describes the pins of the Emergency stop interface.
Pin no.
Signal name
Type
Description
1
SAFE_
RETURN
Ground
Return for lamp signal
2
Test output 1
Output
Safety output 1.Should be connected
through E-stop switch to input 1 and 3.
3
Test output 2
Output
Safety output 2. Should be connected
through E-stop switch to input 2.
4
E-stop 1
Input
Safety input 1.
5
E-stop 2
Input
Safety input 2.
6
Restart
Input
Safety input 3
7
RST_LAMP_
24_V
Output
24 V output for powering the lamp on
the Emergency stop box.
8
NC
Not connected to the robot.
9
NC
Not connected to the robot.
10
NC
Not connected to the robot.
Table 15.2. Description of pins in the Emergency stop interface.

### Page 198

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
198
Ethernet
Figure 15.2. Ethernet connection. Pin numbers (left) and wiring diagram (right).
The communication interface is 10/100 Mbit Ethernet using a M12 connector—see
Connector list on page 206 .
Various protocols can be supported, for example Modbus. For more information on how to
use Modbus, contact your distributor for the how-to guide  How to use Modbus with
MiR robots .
Table 15.3  describes the pins of the Ethernet interface.
Pin number
Signal name
1
TX+
2
RX+
3
TX-
4
RX-
Table 15.3. Description of the pins in the Ethernet interface.

### Page 199

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
199
15.2 Right side interfaces
This section describes the general purpose interfaces located in the right side compartment
on top of MiR250.
Figure 15.3. Overview of the interfaces in the right side compartment.
GPIO A and B
The GPIO supports low current/power devices like relays, contactors, lamps, and/or separate
PLC units.

### Page 200

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
200
Figure 15.4. Outputs and RTNs are intended for sending signals to the top application, and inputs and 24V pins
are intended to receive signals from the top application.
The GPIO interfaces have the following pins:
•   Four inputs, for use with 24V, but robust against 48V.
•   Four outputs, for use with 24V.
To use the GPIO for a top application of your own design, ensure that the  Shelf  feature is
disabled by setting it to  False  under  System > Settings > Features  and that  I/O modules  is
enabled by setting it to  True .

### Page 201

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
201
This enables the GPIO interface to work as input and output to top modules that can be used
in missions.
Outputs (O0, O1, O2, O3) can be toggled on and off by the robot in a  Set I/O module
mission action or manually in  Setup > I/O modules .
A top module can be connected to the output pins and monitor when they are active at 24 V.
RTN is used as ground.
Inputs (I0, I1, I2, I3) can be used by the top module to send inputs to the robot. When 24 V (or
more than 20 V) is connected to the input pin, the robot registers the input as active.

### Page 202

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
202
Figure 15.5. Example of I2 registered as active by the robot and O2 set to active by the user.
Output pins must be connected to RTN pins, and input pins must be connected to 24V pins.
Figure 15.6. Pin numbers for the GPIO interfaces.

### Page 203

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
203
Table 15.4  describes inputs and 24 V supply.
Pin
no.
Signal
name
Type
Description
1
IN1
Input
Input 1.
2
24V
Output
24 V output. 2 A maximum total over all
24 V output.
3
IN2
Input
Input 2.
4
24V
Output
24 V output. 2 A maximum total over all
24 V output.
5
IN3
Input
Input 3.
6
24V
Output
24 V output. 2 A maximum total over all
24 V output.
7
IN4
Input
Input 4.
8
24V
Output
24 V output.   2 A maximum total over all
24 V output.
Table 15.4. Description of the pins in the input interface.
Table 15.5  describes outputs and ground.
Pin no.
Signal name
Type
Description
1
OUT1
Output
Output 1. Maximum 1 A at 24 V
2
GND
Ground
Protected return.
3
OUT2
Output
Output 2. Maximum 1 A at 24 V.
4
GND
Ground
Protected return.
5
OUT3
Output
Output 3. Maximum 1 A at 24 V.
6
GND
Ground
Protected return.

### Page 204

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
204
Pin no.
Signal name
Type
Description
7
OUT4
Output
Output 4. Maximum 1 A at 24 V.
8
GND
Ground
Protected return.
Table 15.5. Description on the pins in the outputs interface.
To use the GPIO functionality, it is necessary to connect the fitting FMC 1.5/ 8-ST-3.5
(1952322) connector – made by Phoenix Contact.
Auxiliary Safety Functions A and B
The Auxiliary safety functions interfaces are designed to support Emergency and Protective
stops and other safety functions.

### Page 205

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
205
Table 15.6  and  Table 15.7  contain the description of the pins of the Auxiliary safety functions
interfaces.
Safety A:
Pin no.
Signal
name
Type
Description
1
Test output
1
Output
24 V test signal. Sends test pulses (not on
constantly).
2
Safeguarded
stop 1
Input
Safeguarded stop 1. Set any or both pin(s) to
inactive to enter Protective stop. If pins are
unequally set for a period greater than three
seconds, PLC will have to be reset by setting
both pins inactive, then active.
3
Shared
emergency
stop in 1
Input
Shared emergency stop in input 1. Inactive =
robot goes into emergency stop.
4
Reduced
speed 1
Input
Circuit broken (logic inactive) will result in the
robot being unable to drive fast.
5
Locomotion
1
Output
Active when the robot is standing still.
6
Shared
emergency
stop out 1
Output
Inactive when the robot is in emergency stop.
Table 15.6. Description of the pins in the Auxiliary safety function interface A.
Safety B:
Pin no.
Signal
name
Type
Description
1
Test output
2
Output
24 V out test signal. Sends test pulses (not on
constantly).

### Page 206

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
206
Pin no.
Signal
name
Type
Description
2
Safeguarded
stop 2
Input
Safeguarded stop 2. Set any or both pin(s) to
inactive to enter emergency stop. If pins are
unequally set for a period greater than three
seconds, PLC will have to be reset by setting
both pins inactive, then active.
3
Shared
emergency
stop in 2
Input
Shared emergency stop in input 2. Inactive =
robot goes into emergency stop.
4
Reduced
speed 2
Input
Circuit broken will result in the robot being
unable to drive fast.
5
Locomotion
2
Output
Active when the robot is standing still.
6
Shared E-
Stop out 2
Output
Active when the robot is in emergency stop.
7
SAFE_
RETURN
Safe return for output signals.
Table 15.7. Description of the pins in the Auxiliary safety function interface B.
15.3 Connector list
Table 15.8  describes the connectors for the seven different interfaces that we recommend
using.
Connector
Description
Manufacturer
Part number
Power
Cable connector, M23, 6
way, male
Phoenix
Contact
1619775
GPIO
Single wire connector,
female, pitch 3.5mm 8
way.
Phoenix
Contact
1952322

### Page 207

15. Interface specifications
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
207
Connector
Description
Manufacturer
Part number
Ethernet
Cable assembly, 1m, M12,
4 way to RJ45
Lumberg
0985 806
103/1M
Auxiliary emergency
stop
Cable connector, 8 + 2
way, XLR, male
Neutrix
NC10MXX-14-
B
Auxiliary safety
functions - long
connector
Single wire connector,
female, Pitch 3,81mm, 7
way
Phoenix
Contact
1851287
Auxiliary safety
functions - short
connector
Single wire connector,
female, pitch 3,81mm, 6
way
Phoenix
Contact
1851274
Antenna
Cable connector, RP-SMA,
male, gold
AMPHENOL
RF
RSMA1111A1-
3GT50G-1A-
50
Table 15.8. Description of the connectors used for the different interfaces.
Figure 15.7. Connector dimensions for the Power connector.

### Page 208

16. Error handling
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
208
16. Error handling
The robot enters an error state when it can't solve a problem on its own.
Errors include:
•   Hardware faults
•   Failed localization
•   Failure to reach destination
•   Unexpected events in the system
An error triggers a Protective stop. The robot is paused until a user acknowledges the error
and clears it.
16.1 Software errors
Software errors such as localization and failure to reach the goal destination can be
prevented with the proper setup of maps and missions:
•   Always test your missions under full observation and normal work environment conditions
before leaving the robot to execute them autonomously.
•   Use Try/Catch actions to make the robot react in a specific way if it fails to execute
certain actions.
•   Use Prompt user actions in missions that require intervention from users.

### Page 209

16. Error handling
MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
209
•   Define forbidden areas with Forbidden or Unpreferred zones on the map.
•   Remove noise from maps.
•   Create Directional or Preferred zones to guide the robot around areas that are difficult
for the robot to travel through.
See  Creating and configuring a map on page 106  for more information.
To clear an error, select the red warning indicator in the interface and select  Reset .
For more details on setting up missions and error handling, see the  MiR Robot Reference
Guide  on the MiR website.
16.2 Hardware errors
If the error is a fault in the hardware, you will either not be able to clear it, or the error will
return until the fault is fixed. If this occurs you can try to fix the issue with these actions:
•   Turn your robot off and then on again. This resets the robot components and may resolve
the issue.
•   Check that the Emergency stop button is released.
•   Check your robot for any physical damage such as cracks, dents, or severe scratches or
contamination such as dust, dirt, and grease. Pay special attention to the 3D cameras,
safety laser scanners, and drive wheels.
•   Sign in to the robot interface and go to  Monitoring > Hardware health . The interface
displays which component is failing and often for what reason. This can help identify the
source of the error. If an internal component is failing, turn off the robot, disconnect the
battery, and have the commissioner or operator visually check the internal component for
obvious faults.
•   For further troubleshooting, contact your distributor for specific MiR troubleshooting
guides or assistance from MiR Technical Support.

### Page 210

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
210
Glossary
A
Autonomous mode
Mode in which the robot drives autonomously based on the missions you assign it.
C
Cart
A cart can be towed by a MiR robot with a MiR hook mounted to it.
Commissioner
Commissioners have thorough knowledge of all aspects of commissioning, safety,
use, and maintenance of MiR250 and have the following main tasks: Commissioning
the product, including creating maps and restricting the user interface for other
users; making the risk assessment; determining the payload limit, weight
distribution, and safe fastening methods of loads to MiR250; and ensuring the safety
of nearby personnel when a MiR robot is accelerating, braking, and maneuvering.
D
Direct user
Direct users are familiar with the safety precautions in the user guide and have the
following main tasks: assigning missions to MiR250 and fastening loads to MiR250
properly.
Dynamic obstacle
Obstacles that are moved around such as pallets, crates, and carts. These should not
be included when creating a map.
E
Emergency stop
Emergency stop is a state the robot enters when an Emergency stop button has
physically been pressed. When the robot is in Emergency stop, the status light of the
robot turns to red, and you are not able to move the robot or send it on missions

### Page 211

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
211
until you bring the robot out of Emergency stop. To do this, you must release the
Emergency stop button and then press the Resume button.
G
Global path
The global path it the route the robot calculates that leads it to its goal position.
I
Identification label
The label that is mounted to the product during production. This is used to identify
the components in your MiR application. It identifies the product model, the
hardware version, and the product serial number.
L
Local path
The route the robot creates within its immediate vicinity that guides it around
obstacles while still following the global path.
Localization
The method used by the robot to determine its position on the map relative to where
it is in the work environment.
M
Manual mode
The mode in which you can drive the robot manually using the joystick in the robot
interface.
Marker
A marker if a physical entity that the robot can dock to. This enables the robot to
position itself accurately relative to the marker.
MiR application
A MiR application is either a single MiR product or a combination of MiR products
that is able to execute certain tasks. A MiR application is often a MiR base robot

### Page 212

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
212
combined with a MiR top module. Is a custom top module is used, the CE mark on
the nameplate of the base robot does not extend to the top module.
MiR robot interface
The robot interface is the web-based interface that enables you to communicate to
your MiR robot. It is accessed by connecting to the robot's WiFi and then going to the
site mir.com.
Muted personnel detection means
When personnel detection means are muted, the robot moves at a reduced speed,
and the protective field sets are minimized so the robot does not enter protective
stop until it is very close to an obstacle.
N
Nameplate
The label delivered with your MiR application that must be mounted before you
commission the robot. The nameplate identifies the MiR application model,
application number, mechanical and electrical specifications, and includes the CE
mark of your application.
O
Operating hazard zone
A zone where the personnel detection means of the robot are reduced or muted to a
level where personnel safety is at risk.
Operator
Operators have thorough knowledge of MiR250 and of the safety precautions
presented in the User guide of MiR250. Operators have the following main tasks:
servicing, maintaining, and creating and changing missions and map positions in the
robot interface.
P
Position
A position is a set of X-Y coordiantes on the map that you can send the robot to.

### Page 213

MiR250User Guide (en) 07/2020- v.1.1©Copyright 2020: Mobile IndustrialRobots A/S.
213
Protective stop
Protective stop is a state the robot enters automatically to ensure the safety of
nearby personnel. When the robot enters Protective stop, the status light of the
robot turns red, and you are not able to move the robot or send it on missions until it
is brought out of Protective stop. The robot goes into Protective stop in a number of
situations:: if a safety laser scanner detects an object in its active protective field,
when the robot finishes the startup process, when the robot has switched between
Manual mode and Autonomous mode, if the safety system detects a fault, or if the
motor control system detects a discrepancy.
S
Static landmark
Obstacles that cannot be moved, such as walls, columns, and fixed structures. These
must be included on the map and are used by the robot to localize itself.